EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Introduction …………. Eat That Frog
Chapter 1...................... Set the Table
Chapter 2...................... Plan Every Day In Advance
Chapter 3...................... Apply the 80/20 Rule to Everything
Chapter 4...................... Consider the Consequences
Chapter 5………………Practice Creative Procrastination
Chapter 6...................... Use the ABCDE Method Continually
Chapter 7...................... Focus on Key Result Areas
Chapter 8...................... The Law of Three
Chapter 9...................... Prepare Thoroughly Before You Begin
Chapter 10……………..Take It One Oil Barrel at a Time
Chapter 11.................... Upgrade Your Key Skills
Chapter 12.................... Leverage Your Special Talents
Chapter 13.................... Identify Your Key Constraints
Chapter 14.................... Put the Pressure on Yourself

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 2
Chapter 15.................... Maximize Your Personal Power
Chapter 16.................... Motivate Yourself into Action
Chapter 17.................... Get Out of the Technological Time Sinks
Chapter 18.................... Slice and Dice the Task
Chapter 19.................... Create Large Chunks of Time
Chapter 20.................... Develop a Sense of Urgency
Chapter 21.................... Single Handle Every Task
Conclusion…………….Putting It All Together

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 3
PREFACE
Thank you for picking up this book. I hope these ideas help you as
much as have helped me and thousands of others. In fact, I hope that
this book changes your life forever.
There is never enough time to do everything you have to do. You are
literally swamped with work and personal responsibilities, projects,
stacks of magazines to read and piles of books you intend to get to
one of these days as soon as you get caught up.
But the fact is that you are never going to get caught up. You will
never get on top of your tasks. You will never get far enough ahead
to be able to get to all those books, magazines and leisure time
activities that you dream of doing.
And forget about solving your time management problems by
becoming more productive. No matter how many personal
productivity techniques you master, there will always be more to do
than you can ever accomplish in the time you have available to you,
no matter how much it is.
You can only get control of your time and your life by changing the
way you think, work and deal with the never ending river of
responsibilities that flows over you each day. You can only get
control of your tasks and activities to the degree that you stop doing
some things and start spending more time on the few things that can
really make a difference in your life.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 4
I have studied time management for more than thirty years. I have
immersed myself in the works of Peter Drucker, Alex Mackenzie,
Alan Lakein, Stephen Covey and many, many others. I have read
hundreds of books and thousands of articles on personal efficiency
and effectiveness. This book is the result.
Each time I came across a good idea, I tried it out in my own work
and personal life. If it worked, I incorporated it into my talks and
seminars and taught it to others.
Galileo once wrote, “You cannot teach a person something he does
not already know; you can only bring what he does know to his
awareness.”
Depending upon your level of knowledge and experience, these ideas
will sound familiar. This book will bring them to a higher level of
awareness. When you learn and apply these methods and techniques
over and over until they become habits, you will alter the course of
your life in a very positive way.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 5
MY OWN STORY
Let me tell you something about myself and the origins of this little
book. I started off in life with few advantages, aside from a curious
mind. I did poorly in school and left without graduating. I worked at
laboring jobs for several years. My future did not appear promising.
As a young man, I got a job on a tramp freighter and went off to see
the world. For eight years, I traveled and worked, and then traveled
some more, eventually visiting more than eighty countries on five
continents.
When I could no longer find a laboring job, I got into sales, knocking
on doors, working on straight commission. I struggled from sale to
sale until I began looking around me and asking, “Why is it that
other people are doing better than I am?”
Then I did something that changed my life. I began to ask successful
people what they were doing that enable them to be more productive
and earn more money than me. And they told me. And I did what
they advised me to do, and my sales went up. Eventually, I became
so successful that they made me a sales manager. As a sales manager,
I used the same strategy. I asked successful managers what they did
to achieve such great results, and when they told me, I went out and
did the same things. In no time at all, I began to get the same results
they did.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 6
This process of learning and applying what I had learned changed
my life. I am still amazed at how simple and obvious it is. Just find
out what other successful people do and do the same things until you
get the same results. Learn from the experts. Wow! What an idea.
Success Is Predictable
Simply put, some people are doing better than others because they do
things differently and they do the right things right. Especially,
successful, happy, prosperous people use their time far, far better
than the average person.
Coming from an unsuccessful background, I had developed deep
feelings of inferiority and inadequacy. I had fallen into the mental
trap of assuming that people who were doing better than me were
actually better than me. What I learned was that this was not
necessarily true. They were just doing things differently, and what
they had learned to do, within reason, I could learn as well.
This was a revelation to me. I was both amazed and excited with this
discovery. I still am.  I realized that I could change my life and
achieve almost any goal I could set if I just found out what others
were doing in that area and then did it myself until I got the same
results they were getting.
Within one year of starting in sales, I was a top salesman. A year later
I was made a manager. Within three years, I became a vice-president

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 7
in charge of a 95 person sales force in six countries. I was twenty-five
years old.
Over the years, I have worked in twenty-two different jobs, started
and built several companies, earned a business degree from a major
university, learned to speak French, German and Spanish and been a
speaker, trainer or consultant for more than 1000 companies. I
currently give talks and seminars to more than 250,000 people each
year, with audiences as large as 20,000 people.
A Simple Truth
Throughout my career, I have discovered and rediscovered a simple
truth. It is this: the ability to concentrate single-mindedly on your
most important task, to do it well and to finish it completely, is the
key to great success, achievement, respect, status and happiness in
life. This key insight is the heart and soul of this book.
This book is written to show you how to get ahead more rapidly in
your career and to simultaneously enrich your personal life. These
pages contain the twenty-one most powerful principles on personal
effectiveness I have ever discovered.
These methods, techniques and strategies are practical, proven and
fast acting. In the interests of time, I do not dwell on the various
psychological or emotional explanations for procrastination or poor
time management. There are no lengthy departures into theory or
research. What you will learn are specific actions you can take

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 8
immediately to get better, faster results in your work, and to increase
your happiness with your family and other people.
Every idea in this book is focused on increasing your overall levels of
productivity, performance and output, and on making you more
valuable in whatever you do. You can apply many of these ideas to
your personal life as well.
Each of these twenty-one methods and techniques is complete in
itself. All are necessary. One strategy might be effective in one
situation and another might apply to another task. All together, these
twenty-one ideas represent a smorgasbord of personal effectiveness
techniques that you can use at any time, in any order or sequence that
makes sense to you at the moment.
The key to success is action. These principles work to bring about
fast, predictable improvements in performance and results. The faster
you learn and apply them, the faster you will move ahead in your
career, guaranteed!
There will be no limit to what you can accomplish when you learn
how to “Eat That Frog!”
Brian Tracy

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 9
INTRODUCTION
This is a wonderful time to be alive. There have never been more
possibilities and opportunities for you to achieve more of your goals
than exist today. And as perhaps never before in human history, you
are actually drowning in options. In fact, there are so many good
things that you can do that your ability to decide among them maybe
the critical determinant of what you accomplish in life.
If you are like most people today, you are overwhelmed with too
much to do and too little time. As you struggle to get caught up, new
tasks and responsibilities just keep rolling in, like the waves of the
ocean. Because of this, you will never be able to do everything you
have to do. You will never be caught up. You will always be behind
in some of your tasks and responsibilities, and probably in many of
them.
The Need to Be Selective
For this reason, and perhaps more than ever before, your ability to
select your most important task at each moment, and then to get
started on that task and to get it done both quickly and well, will
probably have more of an impact on your success than any other
quality or skill you can develop.
An average person who develops the habit of setting clear priorities
and getting important tasks completed quickly will run circles

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 10
around a genius who talks a lot and makes wonderful plans but who
gets very little done.
The Truth about Frogs
Mark Twain once said that if the first thing you do each morning is to
eat a live frog, you can go through the day with the satisfaction of
knowing that that is probably the worst thing that is going to happen
to you all day long.
Your "frog" is your biggest, most important task, the one you are
most likely to procrastinate on if you don't do something about it.
It is also the one task that can have the greatest positive impact on
your life and results at the moment.
The first rule of frog-eating is: "If you have to eat two frogs, eat the
ugliest one first."
This is another way of saying that, if you have two important tasks
before you, start with the biggest, hardest and most important task
first. Discipline yourself to begin immediately and then to persist
until the task is complete before you go on to something else.
Think of this as a “test.” Treat it like a personal challenge. Resist the
temptation to start with the easier task. Continually remind yourself
that one of the most important decisions you make each day is your
choice of what you will do immediately and what you will do later, if
you do it at all.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 11
The second rule of frog-eating is: "If you have to eat a live frog at all,
it doesn't pay to sit and look at it for very long."
The key to reaching high levels of performance and productivity is
for you to develop the lifelong habit of tackling your major task first
thing each morning. You must develop the routine of "Eating your
frog" before you do anything else, and without taking too much time
to think about it.
Take Action Immediately
In study after study of men and women who get paid more and
promoted faster, the quality of "action orientation," stands out as the
most observable and consistent behavior they demonstrate in
everything they do. Successful, effective people are those who launch
directly into their major tasks and then discipline themselves to work
steadily and single mindedly until those tasks are complete.
In our world, and especially in our business world, you are paid and
promoted for getting specific, measurable results. You are paid for
making a valuable contribution and especially, for making the most
important contribution that is expected of you.
"Failure to execute" is one of the biggest problems in organizations
today. Many people confuse activity with accomplishment. They talk
continually, hold endless meetings and make wonderful plans, but,
in the final analysis, no one does the job and gets the results required.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 12
Develop the Habits of Success
Your success in life and work will be determined by the kinds of
habits that you develop over time. The habit of setting priorities,
overcoming procrastination and getting on with your most important
task is a mental and physical skill. As such, this habit is learnable
through practice and repetition, over and over again, until it locks
into your subconscious mind and becomes a permanent part of your
behavior. Once it becomes a habit, it becomes both automatic and
easy to do.
This habit of starting and completing important tasks has immediate
and continuous payoff. You are designed mentally and emotionally
in such a way that task completion gives you a positive feeling. It
makes you happy. It makes you feel like a winner.
Whenever you complete a task, of any size or importance, you feel a
surge of energy, enthusiasm and self-esteem. The more important the
completed task, the happier, more confident and powerful you feel
about yourself and your world.
Important task completion triggers the release of endorphins in your
brain. These endorphins give you a natural “high.” The endorphin
rush that follows successful completion of any task makes you feel
more positive, personable, creative and confident.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 13
Develop a Positive Addiction
Here is one of the most important of the so-called “secrets of
success.” It is that you can actually develop a "positive addition" to
endorphins and to the feeling of enhanced clarity, confidence and
competence that they trigger. When you develop this “addiction,”
you will, at an unconscious level, begin to organize your life in such a
way that you are continually starting and completing ever more
important tasks and projects. You actually become addicted, in a very
positive sense, to success and contribution.
One of the keys to your living a wonderful life, having a successful
career and feeling terrific about yourself is for you to develop the
habit of starting and finishing important jobs. At that point, this
behavior takes on a power of its own and you find it easier to
complete important tasks than not to complete them.
No Short Cuts
You remember the story of the man who stops a musician on a street
in New York and asks how he can get to Carnegie Hall. The musician
replies, "Practice, man, practice."
Practice is the key to mastering any skill. Fortunately, your mind is
like a muscle. It grows stronger and more capable with use. With
practice, you can learn any behavior or develop any habit that you
consider either desirable or necessary.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 14
The Three D’s of New Habit Formation
You need three key qualities to develop the habits of focus and
concentration. They are all learnable. They are decision, discipline,
and determination.
First, make a decision to develop the habit of task completion.
Second, discipline yourself to practice the principles you are about to
learn over and over until they become automatic. And third, back
everything you do with determination until the habit is locked in
and becomes a permanent part of your personality.
Visualize Yourself As You Want to Be
There is a special way that you can accelerate your progress toward
becoming the highly productive, effective, efficient person that you
want to be. It consists of your thinking continually about the rewards
and benefits of being an action oriented, fast moving, and focused
person. See yourself as the kind of person who gets important jobs
done quickly and well on a consistent basis.
Your mental picture of yourself has a powerful effect on your
behavior. Visualize yourself as the person you intend to be in the
future. Your self-image, the way you see yourself on the inside,
largely determines your performance on the outside. All
improvement in your outer life begins with improvements in your
mental pictures, on the inside.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 15
 You have a virtually unlimited ability to learn and develop new
skills, habits and abilities. When you train yourself, through
repetition and practice, to overcome procrastination and get your
most important tasks completed quickly, you will move yourself onto
the fast track in your life and career and step on the accelerator.
Eat That Frog!

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 16
CHAPTER 1
Set the Table
“There is one quality that one must possess to win,
and that is definiteness of purpose, the knowledge of what one wants
and a burning desire to achieve it.”
Napoleon Hill
Before you can determine your “frog” and get on with the job of
eating it, you have to decide exactly what it is you want to achieve in
each area of your life. Clarity is perhaps the most important concept
in personal productivity. The number one reason why some people
get more work done faster is because they are absolutely clear about
their goals and objectives and they don’t deviate from them.
The greater clarity you have regarding what you want and the steps you
will have to take to achieve it, the easier it will be for you to overcome
procrastination, eat your frog and complete the task before you.
A major reason for procrastination and lack of motivation is
vagueness, confusion and fuzzy mindedness about what it is you are
trying to do, and in what order and for what reason. You must avoid
this common condition with all your strength by striving for ever
greater clarity in your major goals and tasks.
Here is a great rule for success: "Think on paper."

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 17
Only about 3% of adults have clear, written goals. These people
accomplish five and ten times as much as people of equal or better
education and ability but who, for whatever reason, have never taken
the time to write out exactly what it is they want.
There is a powerful formula for setting and achieving goals that you
can use for the rest of your life. It consists of seven simple steps. Any
one of these steps can double and triple your productivity if you are
not currently using it. Many of my graduates have increased their
incomes dramatically in a matter of a few years, or even a few
months, with this simple, seven-part method.
Step One: Decide exactly what you want.
 Either decide for yourself or sit down with your boss and discuss
your goals and objectives until you are absolutely, crystal clear about
what is expected of you and in what order of priority. It is amazing
how many people are working away, day after day, on low value
tasks because they have not had this critical discussion with their
manager.
Rule: “One of the very worst uses of time is to do something very
well that need not be done at all.”
Stephen Covey says that, "Before you begin scrambling up the ladder
of success, make sure that it is leaning against the right building."

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 18
Step Two: Write it down.
Think on paper. When you write your goal down, you crystallize it
and give it tangible form. You create something that you can touch
and see. On the other hand, a goal or objective that is not in writing is
merely a wish or a fantasy. It has no energy behind it. Unwritten
goals lead to confusion, vagueness, misdirection and numerous
mistakes.
Step Three: Set a deadline on your goal. Set sub-deadlines if
necessary.
A goal or decision without a deadline has no urgency.  It has no real
beginning or end. Without a definite deadline accompanied by the
assignment or acceptance of specific responsibilities for completion,
you will naturally procrastinate and get very little done.
Step Four: Make a list of everything that you can think of that you
are going to have to do to achieve your goal.
As you think of new activities, add them to your list. Keep building
your list until it is complete. A list gives you a visual picture of the
larger task or objective. It gives you a track to run on. It dramatically
increases the likelihood that you will achieve your goal as you have
defined it and on schedule.
Step Five: Organize the list into a plan.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 19
Organize your list by priority and sequence. Take a few minutes to
decide what you need to do first and what you can do later. Decide
what has to be done before something else and what needs to be
done afterwards. Even better, lay out your plan visually, in the form
of a series of boxes and circles on a sheet of paper, with lines and
arrows showing the relationship of each task to each other task.
You’ll be amazed at how much easier it is to achieve your goal when
you break it down into individual tasks.
With a written goal and an organized plan of action, you will be far
more productive and efficient than someone who is carrying his goals
around in his mind.
Step Six: Take action on your plan immediately.
Do something. Do anything. An average plan vigorously executed is
far better than a brilliant plan on which nothing is done. For you to
achieve any kind of success, execution is everything.
Step Seven: Resolve to do something every single day that moves
you toward your major goal.
Build this activity into your daily schedule. You may read a specific
number of pages on a key subject. You could call on a specific
number of prospects or customers. You can engage in a specific
period of physical exercise. You can learn a certain number of new
words in a foreign language. Whatever it is, you must never miss a
day.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 20
Keep pushing forward. Once you start moving, keep moving. Don’t stop.
This decision, this discipline alone, can dramatically increase your speed
of goal accomplishment and boost your personal productivity.
The Power of Written Goals
Clear written goals have a wonderful effect on your thinking. They
motivate you and galvanize you into action. They stimulate your
creativity, release your energy and help you to overcome
procrastination as much as any other factor.
Goals are the fuel in the furnace of achievement. The bigger your
goals and the clearer they are, the more excited you become about
achieving them. The more you think about your goals, the greater
becomes your inner drive and desire to accomplish them.
Think about your goals and review them daily. Every morning when
you begin, take action on the most important task you can
accomplish to achieve your most important goal at the moment.
Eat That Frog!
1.  Take a clean sheet of paper right now and make out a list of ten
goals you want to accomplish in the next year. Write your goals as
though a year has already passed and they are now a reality.
Use the present tense, positive and personal case so that they are
immediately accepted by your subconscious mind.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 21
For example, you would write. “I earn X number of dollars per year.”
Or “I weigh X number of pounds.” Or “I drive such and such a car.”
2. Review your list of ten goals and select the one goal that, if you
achieved it, would have the greatest positive impact on your life.
Whatever that goal is, write it on a separate sheet of paper, set a
deadline, make a plan, take action on your plan and then do
something every single day that moves you toward that goal. This
exercise alone could change your life!

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 22
CHAPTER 2
Plan Every Day In Advance
“Planning is bringing the future into the present
so you can do something about it now.”
Alan Lakein
You have heard the old question, ”How do you eat an elephant?
Answer: One bite at a time!”
How do you eat your biggest, ugliest frog? The same way; you break
it down into specific step-by-step activities and then you start on the
first one.
Your mind, your ability to think, plan and decide, is your most
powerful tool for overcoming procrastination and increasing your
productivity. Your ability to set your goals, make plans and take
action on them determines the course of your life. The very act of
thinking and planning unlocks your mental powers, triggers your
creativity and increases your mental and physical energies.
Conversely, as Alex Mackenzie wrote, "Action without planning is the
cause of every failure."
Your ability to make good plans, before you begin, is a measure of
your overall competence. The better the plan you have, the easier it is
for you to overcome procrastination, to get started, to eat your frog
and then to keep going.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 23
Increase Your Return on Energy
One of your top goals at work should be for you to get the highest
possible return on your investment of mental, emotional and physical
energy. The good news is that every minute spent in planning saves
as many as ten minutes in execution. It only takes about ten to twelve
minutes for you to plan out your day, but this small investment of
time will save you at least two hours (100-120 minutes) in wasted
time and diffused effort throughout the day.
You may have heard of the Six "P" Formula. It says, "Proper Prior
Planning Prevents Poor Performance."
When you consider how helpful planning can be in increasing your
productivity and performance, it is amazing how few people practice
it every single day. And planning is really quite simple to do. All you
need is a piece of paper and a pen. The most sophisticated Palm Pilot,
computer program or time planner is based on the same principle. It
is based on your sitting down and making a list of everything you
have to do before you begin.
Two Extra Hours Per Day
Always work from a list. When something new comes up, add it to
the list before you do it. You can increase your productivity and
output by 25% or more, by about two hours, from the first day that
you begin working consistently from a list.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 24
Make out your list the night before, at the end of the workday. Move
everything that you have not yet accomplished onto your list for the
coming day and then add everything that you have to do the next
day. When you make out your list the evening or the night before,
your subconscious mind works on your list all night long while you
sleep. Often you will wake up with great ideas and insights that you
can use to get your job done faster and better than you had initially
thought.
The more time you take to make written lists of everything you have
to do, in advance, the more effective and efficient you will be.
Different Lists for Different Purposes
There are different lists that you need for different purposes. First,
you should create a master list on which you write down everything
you can think of that you want to do some time in the future. This is
the place where you capture every idea that comes to or every new
task or responsibility that comes up.  You can then sort out the items
later.
Second, you should have a monthly list that you make up at the end
of the month for the month ahead.  This may contain items
transferred from your master list.
Third, you should have a weekly list where you plan your entire
week in advance. This is a list that is under construction as you go
through the current week.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 25
This discipline of systematic time planning can be very helpful to
you. Many people have told me that the habit of taking a couple of
hours at the end of each week to plan the coming week has increased
their productivity dramatically and changed their lives completely.
This technique will work for you as well.
Finally, you transfer items from your monthly and weekly lists onto
your daily list. These are the specific activities that you are going to
accomplish that day.
As you work through the day, tick off the items on your list as you
complete them. This activity gives you a visual picture of
accomplishment. It generates a feeling of success and forward
motion.  Seeing yourself working progressively through your list
motivates and energizes you. It raises your self-esteem and self-
respect. Steady, visible progress propels you forward and helps you
to overcome procrastination.
Planning a Project
When you have a project of any kind, begin by making a list of every
step that you will have to complete to finish the project from
beginning to end. Organize the project by priority and sequence. Lay
out the project in front of you on paper, or on a computer so that you
can see every step and task. Then go to work on one task at a time.
You will be amazed at how much you get done in this way.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 26
As you work through your lists, you will feel more and more
effective and powerful. You will feel more in control of your life. You
will be naturally motivated to do even more. You will think better
and more creatively and you will get more and better insights that
enable you to do your work even faster.
As you work steadily through your lists, you will develop a sense of
positive forward momentum that enables you to overcome
procrastination. This feeling of progress gives you more energy and
keeps you going throughout the day.
One of the most important rules of personal effectiveness is the 10/90
Rule. This rule says that the first 10% of time that you spend
planning and organizing your work, before you begin, will save you
as much as 90% of the time in getting the job done once you get
started. You only have to try this rule once to prove it to yourself.
When you plan each day in advance, you find it much easier to get
going and to keep going. The work goes faster and smoother than ever
before. You feel more powerful and competent. You get more done
faster than you thought possible. Eventually, you become unstoppable.
Eat That Frog!
1.  Begin today to plan every day, week and month in advance. Take
a notepad or sheet of paper, or use your PDA or Blackberry,  and
make a list of everything you have to do in the next 24 hours. Add to
it as new items come up. Make a list of all your projects, the big
multi-task jobs that are important to your future.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 27
2.  Lay out each of your major goals, projects or tasks by priority,
what is most important, and by sequence, what has to be done first,
what comes second and so forth. Start with the end in mind and
work backward.
Think on paper! Always work from a list. You’ll be amazed at how
much more productive you become, and how much easier it is to eat
your frog.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 28
CHAPTER 3
Apply the 80/20 Rule to Everything
“We always have time enough, if we will but use it aright.”
Wolfgang Von Goethe
The 80/20 Rule is one of the most helpful of all concepts of time and
life management. It is also called the Pareto Principle after its
founder, the Italian economist Vilfredo Pareto, who first wrote about
it in 1895. Pareto noticed that people in his society seemed to divide
naturally into what he called the "vital few,” the top 20% in terms of
money and influence, and the “trivial many,” the bottom 80%.
He later discovered that virtually all economic activity was subject to
this Pareto Principle as well.
For example, this rule says that 20% of your activities will account for
80% of your results. 20% of your customers will account for 80% of
your sales. 20% of your products or services will account for 80% of
your profits. 20% of your tasks will account for 80% of the value of
what you do, and so on.
This means that if you have a list of ten items to do, two of those
items will turn out to be worth as much or more than the other eight
items put together.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 29
Number of Tasks versus Importance of Tasks
Here is an interesting discovery. Each of these tasks may take the
same amount of time to accomplish. But one or two of those tasks
will contribute five or ten times the value as any of the others.
Often, one item on a list of ten things that you have to do can be
worth more than all the other nine items put together. This task is
invariably the frog that you should eat first.
Can you guess on which items the average person is most likely to
procrastinate? The sad fact is that most people procrastinate on the
top ten or twenty percent of items that are the most valuable and
important, the “vital few.” They busy themselves instead with the
least important 80%, the "trivial many" that contribute very little to
results.
Focus on Activities versus Accomplishments
You often see people who appear to be busy all day long but they
seem to accomplish very little. This is almost always because they are
busy doing things that are of low value while they procrastinate on the
one or two activities that, if they completed them quickly and well,
could make a real difference to their companies and to their careers.
The most valuable tasks you can do each day are often the hardest
and most complex. But the payoff and rewards for completing these
tasks efficiently can be tremendous. For this reason, you must

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 30
adamantly refuse to work on tasks in the bottom 80% while you still
have tasks in the top 20% left to be done.
Before you begin work, always ask yourself, “Is this task in the top
20% of my activities or in the bottom 80%?”
Rule: “Resist the temptation to clear up small things first.”
Remember, whatever you choose to do, over and over, eventually
becomes a habit that is hard to break. If you choose to start your day
on low value tasks, you soon develop the habit of always starting and
working on low value tasks. This is not the kind of habit you want to
develop, or keep.
The hardest part of any important task is getting started on it in the
first place. Once you actually begin work on a valuable task, you seem
to be naturally motivated to continue. There is a part of your mind
that loves to be busy working on significant tasks that can really make
a difference. Your job is to feed this part of your mind continually.
Motivate Yourself
Just thinking about starting and finishing an important task motivates
you and helps you to overcome procrastination. The fact is that the
amount of time required to complete an important job is often the
same as the time required to do an unimportant job. The difference is
that you get a tremendous feeling of pride and satisfaction from the

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 31
completion of something valuable and significant. However, when
you complete a low value task, using the same amount of time and
energy, you get little or no satisfaction at all.
Time management is really life management, personal management.
It is really taking control over the sequence of events. Time
management is control over what you do next. And you are always
free to choose the task that you will do next. Your ability to choose
between the important and the unimportant is the key determinant of
your success in life and work.
 Effective, productive people discipline themselves to start on the
most important task that is before them. They force themselves to eat
that frog, whatever it is. As a result, they accomplish vastly more than
the average person and are much happier as a result. This should be
your way of working as well.
Eat That Frog!
1.  Make a list of all the key goals, activities, projects and
responsibilities in your life today. Which of them are, or could be, in
the top 10% or 20% of tasks that represent, or could represent, 80% or
90% of your results?
2.  Resolve today that you are going to spend more and more of your
time working in those few areas that can really make a difference in
you life and career, and less and less time on lower value activities.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 32
CHAPTER 4
Consider the Consequences
“Every man has become great; every successful man has succeeded,
in proportion as he has confined his powers to one particular channel.”
Orison Swett Marden
The mark of the superior thinker is his or her ability to accurately
predict the consequences of doing or not doing something. The
potential consequences of any task or activity are the key
determinants of how important it really is to you and to your
company. This way of evaluating the significance of a task is how
you determine what your next frog really is.
Doctor Edward Banfield of Harvard University, after more than 50
years of research, concluded that "long-time perspective" is the most
accurate single predictor of upward social and economic mobility in
America. Long time perspective turns out to be more important than
family background, education, race, intelligence, connections or
virtually any other single factor in determining your success in life
and at work.
Your attitude toward time, your "time horizon," has an enormous
impact on your behavior and your choices. People who take the long
view of their lives and careers always seem to make much better
decisions about their time and activities than people who give very
little thought to the future.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 33
Rule: "Long-term thinking improves short-term decision making."
Successful people have a clear future-orientation. They think five, ten
and twenty years out into the future. They analyze their choices and
behaviors in the present to make sure that what they are doing today
is consistent with the long-term future that they desire.
Make Better Decisions about Time
In your work, having a clear idea of what is really important to you
in the long-term makes it much easier for you to make better
decisions about your priorities in the short-term.
By definition, something that is important has long-term potential
consequences. Something that is unimportant has few or no long-
term potential consequences. Before starting on anything, you should
always ask yourself, "What are the potential consequences of doing
or not doing this task?"
Rule: "Future intent influences and often determines present actions."
The clearer you are about your future intentions, the greater
influence that clarity will have on what you do in the moment. With a
clear long-term vision, you are much more capable of evaluating an
activity in the present and to assure that it is consistent with where
you truly want to end up.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 34
Think about the Long Term
Successful people are those who are willing to delay gratification and
make sacrifices in the short term so that they can enjoy far greater
rewards in the long term. Unsuccessful people, on the other hand,
think more about short-term pleasure and immediate gratification
while giving little thought to the long-term future.
Dennis Waitley, the motivational speaker, says, "Failures do what is
tension relieving while winners do what is goal achieving."
For example, coming in to work earlier, reading regularly in your
field, taking courses to improve your skills, and focusing on high
value tasks in your work will all combine to have an enormous
positive impact on your future.
On the other hand, coming in to work at the last moment, reading the
newspaper, drinking coffee and socializing with your coworkers may
seem fun and enjoyable in the short-term but it inevitably leads to
lack of promotion, underachievement and frustration in the long-
term.
If there is a task or activity with large potential positive
consequences, make it a top priority and get started on it
immediately. If there is something that can have large potential
negative consequences if it is not done quickly and well, that
becomes a top priority as well. Whatever your frog is, resolve to gulp
it down first thing.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 35
Motivation requires motive. The greater the positive potential impact
that an action or behavior of yours can have on your life, once you
define it clearly, the more motivated you will be to overcome
procrastination and get it done quickly.
Keep yourself focused and forward moving by continually starting
and completing those tasks that can make a major difference to your
company and to your future.
Remember, the time is going to pass anyway. The only question is
how you use it and where you are going to end up at the end of the
weeks and months. And where you end up is largely a matter of the
amount of consideration you give to the likely consequences of your
actions in the short term.
Thinking continually about the potential consequences of your
choices, decisions and behaviors is one of the very best ways to
determine you true priorities in your work and personal life.
Obey the Law of Forced Efficiency
This law says that, "There is never enough time to do everything, but
there is always enough time to do the most important thing."
Put another way, you cannot eat every tadpole and frog in the pond,
but you can eat the biggest and ugliest one, and that will be enough,
at least for the time being.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 36
When you run out of time and the consequences for non-completion
of a key task or project can be really serious, you always seem to find
the time to get it done, often at the very last minute. When you have
no choice, when the consequences for non-completion are serious
enough, you start early, you stay late and you drive yourself to
complete the job rather than to face the unpleasantness that would
follow if you didn't get it completed within the time limit.
Rule: "There will never be enough time to do everything you
have to do."
It has been estimated that the average person in business today,
especially managers in the age of cutbacks, is working at 110% to
130% of capacity. And the jobs and responsibilities just keep piling
up. Everyone has stacks of reading material they still have to go
through. One study concluded recently that the average executive
has 300-400 hours of reading and projects backlogged at home and at
the office.
What this means is that you will never be caught up. Get that
wonderful idea out of your mind. All you can hope for is to be on top
of your most important responsibilities. The others will just have to
wait.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 37
Deadlines Are an Excuse
Many people say that they work better under the pressure of
deadlines. Unfortunately, years of research indicate that this is
seldom true.
Under the pressure of deadlines, often self-created through
procrastination and delay, people suffer greater stress, make more
mistakes, and have to do redo more tasks, than under any other
conditions. Often the mistakes that are made when people are
working under tight deadlines lead to defects and cost overruns that
lead to substantial financial losses in the long-term. Sometimes the
job actually takes much longer to complete when people rush to get
the job done at the last minute and then have to redo it.
It is much better to plan your time carefully in advance, and then
build in a sizable buffer to compensate for unexpected delays and
diversions. How ever much time you think a task will take, add on
another 20% or more, or make a game of getting in done well in
advance of the deadline. You will be amazed at how much more
relaxed you are, and how much better a job you do.
Three Questions for Maximum Productivity
There are three questions that you can use on a regular basis to keep
yourself focused on getting your most important tasks completed on
schedule. The first question is "What are my highest value activities?"

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 38
Put another way, what are the biggest frogs that you have to eat to
make the greatest contribution to your organization? To your family?
To your life in general?
This is one of the most important questions you can ask and answer.
What are your highest value activities? First, think this through for
yourself. Then, ask your boss. Ask your coworkers and subordinates.
Ask your friends and family. Like focusing the lens of a camera, you
must be crystal clear about your highest value activities before you
begin work.
The second question you can ask continually is, "What can I and only I
do, that if done well, will make a real difference?"
This question comes from Peter Drucker, the management guru. It is
one of the best of all questions for achieving personal effectiveness.
What can you, and only you do, that if done well, can make a real
difference?
This is defined something that only you can do. If you don't do it, it
won't be done by someone else. But if you do do it, and you do it
well, it can really make a difference to your life and your career.
What is this particular frog for you?
Every hour of every day, you can ask yourself this question and there
will be a specific answer. You job is to be clear about the answer and
then to start and work on this task before anything else.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 39
The third question you can ask is "What is the most valuable use of my
time, right now?"
What is my biggest frog of all at this moment?
This is the core question of time management. Answering this
question correctly is the key to overcoming procrastination and
becoming a highly productive person. Every hour of every day, there
is some task that is the most valuable use of your time at that
moment. Your job is to ask yourself this question, over and over
again, and to always be working on the answer to it, whatever it is.
Do first things first and second things not at all. As Goethe said, "The things
that matter most must never be at the mercy of the things that matter least."
The more accurate your answers to these questions, the easier it will
be for you to set clear priorities, to overcome procrastination and to
get started on that one activity that represents the most valuable use
of your time.
Eat That Frog!   
1.  Review your list of tasks, activities and projects regularly.
Continually ask yourself, “Which one project or activity, if I did it in
an excellent and timely fashion, would have the greatest positive
consequences in my work or personal life?”

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 40
2. Determine the most important things you could be doing every
hour of every day, and then discipline yourself to work continually
on the most valuable use of your time. What is this for you, right
now?
Whatever it is that can help you the most, set it as a goal, make a plan
to achieve it and go to work on your plan immediately. Remember
the wonderful words of Goethe, “Just begin and the mind grows heated;
continue, and the task will be completed!”

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 41
CHAPTER 5
Practice Creative Procrastination
“Make time for getting big tasks done every day.
Plan your daily workload in advance. Single out the relatively few small jobs
that absolutely must be done immediately in the morning. Then go directly
to the big tasks and pursue them to completion.”
Boardroom Reports
Creative procrastination is one of the most effective of all personal
performance techniques. It can change your life.
The fact is that you can't do everything that you have to do. You have
to procrastinate on something! Therefore, procrastinate on small tasks.
Put off eating smaller or less ugly frogs. Eat the biggest and ugliest
frogs before anything else. Do the worst first!
Everyone procrastinates. The difference between high performers
and low performers is largely determined by what they choose to
procrastinate on.
Since you must procrastinate anyway, decide today to procrastinate
on low value activities. Decide to procrastinate, outsource, delegate
and eliminate those activities that don't make much of a
contribution to your life in any case. Get rid of the tadpoles and
focus on the frogs.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 42
Priorities versus Posteriorities
Here is a key point. To set proper priorities, you must set
posteriorities as well. A priority is something that you do more of and
sooner, while a posteriority is something that you do less of and later,
if at all.
Rule: “You can only get your time and your life under control to the
degree to which you discontinue lower value activities.”
One of the most powerful of all words in time management is the
word "No!" Say it politely and courteously. Say it clearly so that there
are no misunderstandings. Say it regularly, as a normal part of your
time management vocabulary.
Say "no" to anything that is not a high value use of your time and
your life. Say “no” graciously but firmly to avoid agreeing to
something against your will. Say it early and say it often. Remember
that you have no spare time. As we say, "Your dance card is full."
For you to do something new, you must complete or stop doing
something old. Getting in requires getting out. Picking up means
putting down.
Creative procrastination is the act of thoughtfully and deliberately
deciding upon the exact things you are not going to do right now, if
ever.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 43
Procrastinate on Purpose
Most people engage in unconscious procrastination. They
procrastinate without thinking about it. As a result, they
procrastinate on the big, valuable, important tasks that can have
significant long-term consequences to their lives and careers.
You must avoid this common tendency at all costs.
Your job is to deliberately procrastinate on those tasks that are of low
value so that you have more time for those tasks that can make a big
difference in your life and work.
Continually review your duties and responsibilities to identify those
time consuming tasks and activities that you can abandon with no
real loss. This is an ongoing responsibility for you that never ends.
For example, a friend of mine, when he was single, was an avid
golfer. He liked to golf three and four times a week, three to four
hours each time.
Over a period of years, he started a business, got married and had
two children. But he still played golf three to five times a week until
he finally realized that his time on the golf course was causing him
enormous stress at home and at the office. It was only by
abandoning most of his golf games that he could get his life back
under control.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 44
Set Posteriorities on Time Consuming Activities
Continually review your life and work to find those time consuming
tasks and activities that you can abandon with no real loss. Cut down
on television watching and spend the time saved with your family, or
reading or exercising, or doing something that enhances the quality
of your life.
Look at your work activities and identify the tasks that you could
delegate or eliminate to free up more time for the work that really
counts. Begin today to practice creative procrastination, to set
posteriorities wherever and whenever you can. This decision alone
can enable to get your time and your life under control.
Eat That Frog!
1.   Practice zero-based thinking on every part of your life. Ask
yourself continually, “If I was not doing this already, knowing what I
now know, would I start it up, or get into it again today?” If it is
something you would not start up again today, knowing what you
now know, it is a prime candidate for abandonment or creative
procrastination.
2.  Examine each of your personal and work activities and evaluate it
based on your current situation. Select at least one activity to
abandon immediately, or at least, deliberately put off until your more
important goals have been achieved.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 45
CHAPTER 6
Use the ABCDE Method Continually
“The first law of success is concentration –
to bend all the energies to one point, and to go directly to that point,
looking neither to the right or to the left.”
William Mathews
The more thought you invest in planning and setting priorities before
you begin, the more important things you will do and the faster you
will get them done once you get started.
The more important and valuable the task is to you, the more likely
you will be motivated to overcome procrastination and launch
yourself into the job.
The ABCDE Method is a powerful priority setting technique that you
can use every single day. This technique is so simple and effective
that it can, all by itself, make you one of the most efficient and
effective people in your field.
Think on Paper
The power of this technique lies in its simplicity. Here’s how it works:
You start with a list of everything you have to do for the coming day.
Think on paper.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 46
You then place an A, B, C, D or E before each item on your list before
you begin the first task.
An "A" item is defined as something that is very important. This is
something that you must do. This is a task for which there can be
serious consequences if you do it or fail to do it, like visiting a key
customer or finishing a report for your boss that she needs for an
upcoming board meeting. These are the frogs of your life.
If you have more than one "A" task, you prioritize these tasks by
writing A-1, A-2, A-3, and so on in front of each item. Your A-1
task is your biggest, ugliest frog of all.
“Shoulds” versus “Musts”
A "B" item is defined as a task that you should do. But it only has mild
consequences. These are the tadpoles of your work life. This means
that someone may be unhappy or inconvenienced if you don't do it,
but it is nowhere as important as an "A" task. Returning an
unimportant telephone message or reviewing your email would be a
"B" task.
The rule is that you should never do a "B" task when there is an "A"
task left undone. You should never be distracted by a tadpole when
there is a big frog sitting there waiting to be eaten.
A "C" task is defined as something that would be nice to do, but for
which there are no consequences at all, whether you do it or not. "C"

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 47
tasks include phoning a friend, having coffee or lunch with a
coworker or completing some personal business during work hours.
This sort of activity has no affect at all on your work life.
A "D" task is defined as something you can delegate to someone else.
The rule is that you should delegate everything that anyone else can
do so that you can free up more time for the "A" tasks that only you
can do.
An "E" task is defined as something that you can eliminate altogether
and it won't make any real difference.
This may be a task that was important at one time but which is no
longer relevant to yourself or anyone else. Often it is something you
continue to do out of habit or because you enjoy it. But every minute
that you spend on an “E” task is time taken away from a task or
activity that can make a real difference in your life.
After you have applied the ABCDE Method to your list, you will now
be completely organized and ready to get more important things
done faster.
Take Action Immediately
The key to making this ABCDE Method work is for you to now
discipline yourself to start immediately on your "A-1" task and then
stay at it until it is complete. Use your willpower to get going and
stay going on this one job, the most important single task you could

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 48
possibly be doing. Eat the whole frog and don’t stop until it’s
finished completely.
Your ability to think through, analyze your work list and determine
your "A-1" task is the springboard to higher levels of
accomplishment, and greater self-esteem, self-respect and personal
pride.
When you develop the habit of concentrating on your "A-1," most
important activity, on eating your frog, you will start getting more
done than any two or three people around you.
Eat That Frog!
1.  Review you work list right now and put an A, B, C, D or E next to
each task or activity. Select your A-1 job or project and begin on it
immediately. Discipline yourself to do nothing else until this one job
is complete.
2.  Practice this ABCDE Method every day and on every work or
project list, before you begin work, for the next month. By that time,
you will have developed the habit of setting and working on your
highest priority tasks and your future will be assured!

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 49
CHAPTER 7
Focus On Key Result Areas
“When every physical and mental resource is focused,
one’s power to solve a problem multiplies tremendously.”
Norman Vincent Peale
Why are you on the payroll? This is one of the most important
questions you ever ask and answer, over and over again, throughout
your career.
As it happens, most people are not sure exactly why they are on the
payroll. But if you are not crystal clear about why it is that you are on
the payroll and what results you have been hired to accomplish, it is
very hard for you to perform at your best, get paid more and
promoted faster.
In its simplest terms, you have been hired to get specific results. A
wage or a salary is a payment for a specific quality and quantity of
work that can be combined with the work of others to create a
product or service that customers are willing to pay for.
Each job can be broken down into about five to seven key result
areas, seldom more. These are the results that you absolutely,
positively have to get to fulfill your responsibilities and make your
maximum contribution to your organization.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 50
Key result areas are similar to the vital functions of the body, such as
blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and brainwave activity.
An absence of any one of these vital functions leads to the death of
the organism. By the same token, your failure to perform in a critical
result area of your work can lead to the end of your job as well.
The Big Seven in Management and Sales
For example, the key result areas of management are: Planning,
Organizing, Staffing, Delegating, Supervising, Measuring and
Reporting. These are the results that a manager must get to succeed
in his or her area of responsibility. A weakness in any one of these
areas can lead to underachievement and failure as a manager.
The key result areas of salespeople are: Prospecting, Building
Rapport and Trust, Identifying Needs, Presenting Persuasively,
Answering Objections, Closing the Sale, and Getting Resales and
Referrals. Poor performance in any one of these key skills leads to
lower sales and sometimes failure as a salesperson.
Whatever you do, there are essential skills that you must have for
you to do your job in an excellent fashion. These demands are
constantly changing. There are core competencies that you have
developed that make it possible for you to do your job in the first
place. But there are always key results that are central to your work
and which determine your success or failure in your job. What are
yours?

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 51
A key result area is defined as something for which you are
completely responsible. This means that if you don't do it, it doesn't
get done. A key result area is an activity that is under your control. It
is an output of your work that becomes an input or a contributing
factor to the work of others.
Clarity Is Essential
The starting point of high performance is for you to first of all
identify the key result areas of your work. Discuss them with your
boss. Make a list of your most important output responsibilities and
make sure that the people above you, next to you and below you are
in agreement with it.
For example, for a salesperson, opening new accounts is a key result
area. This activity is the key to the entire sales process. Closing a sale
is a key result area. When the sale is made, it triggers the activities of
many other people to produce and deliver the product or service.
For a company owner or key executive, negotiating a bank loan is a
key result area. Hiring the right people and delegating effectively are
both key result areas. For a receptionist or secretary, typing a letter or
answering the phone and transferring the caller quickly and
efficiently are defined as key result areas. The employee’s ability to
perform these tasks quickly and efficiently largely determines her
pay and promotability.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 52
Give Yourself a Grade
Once you have determined your key result areas, the second step is
for you to grade yourself on a scale of 1-10 in each of those areas.
Where are you strong and where are you weak? Where are you
getting excellent results and where are you underperforming?
Rule: Your weakest key result area sets the height at which you can
use all your other skills and abilities.
This rule says that you could be exceptional in six out of seven key
result areas but really poor in the seventh. And your poor
performance in the seventh area will hold you back and determine
how much you achieve with all your other skills. This weakness will
act as a drag on your effectiveness and be a constant source of friction
and frustration.
For example, delegating is a key result area for a manager. This skill is
the key leverage point that enables a manager to manage, to get results
through others. A manager who cannot delegate properly is held back
from using all his or her other skills at their maximum level of
effectiveness. Poor delegation skills alone can lead to failure in the job.
Poor Performance Produces Procrastination
One of the major reasons for procrastination and delay in the
workplace is that people avoid jobs and activities in those areas

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 53
where they have performed poorly in the past. Instead of setting a
goal and making a plan to improve in a particular area, most people
avoid that area altogether, which just makes the situation worse.
The reverse of this is that, the better you become in a particular skill
area, the more motivated you will be to perform that function, the
less you will procrastinate and the more determined you will be to
get it finished.
The fact is that everybody has both strengths and weaknesses. Refuse
to rationalize, justify or defend your areas of weakness. Instead,
identify them clearly. Set a goal and make a plan to become very
good in each of those areas. Just think! You may be only one critical
skill away from top performance at your job.
The Great Question
Here is one of the greatest questions you will ever ask and answer:
"What one skill, if I developed and did it in an excellent fashion,
would have the greatest positive impact on my career?"
You should use this question to guide your career for the rest of your
life. Look into yourself for the answer. You usually know what it is.
Ask your boss this question. Ask your coworkers. Ask your friends
and your family. Whatever it is, find out and then go to work to bring
up your performance in this area.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 54
The good news is that all business skills are learnable. If anyone else is
excellent in that particular key result area, this is proof that you can
become excellent as well, if you decide to.
One of the fastest and best ways to stop procrastinating and get more
things done faster is for you to become absolutely excellent in your
key result areas. This can be as important as anything else you do in
your life or your career.
Eat That Frog!
1.  Identify the key result areas of your work. What are they? Write
down the key results you have to get to do your job in an excellent
fashion. Give yourself a grade from 1-10 on each one. And then
determine the one key skill that, if you did it in an excellent manner,
would help you the most in your work.
2.  Take this list to your boss and discuss it with him or her. Invite
honest feedback and appraisal. You can only get better when you are
open to the constructive inputs of other people. Discuss your results
with your staff and coworkers. Talk them over with your spouse.
Make a habit of doing this analysis regularly for the rest of your
career. Never stop improving. This decision alone can change your
life.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 55
CHAPTER 8
The Law of Three
““Do what you can with what you have right where you are.”
Theodore Roosevelt
There are three core tasks that you perform that contain most of the
value that you contribute to your business or organization. Your
ability to accurately identify these three key tasks and then to focus
on them most of the time is essential for you to achieve at your best.
Let me tell you a true story.
Three months after her first full day coaching session with me in San
Diego, Cynthia stood up and told the group a story. She said, “When
I came here 90 days ago, you claimed that you would show me how
to double my income and double my time off within 12 months. This
sounded completely unrealistic, but I was willing to give it a try.”
She went on. “On the first day, you asked me to write down a list of
everything that I did over the course of a week or a month. I came up
with 17 tasks that I was responsible for. My problem was that I was
completely overwhelmed with work. I was working 10 to 12 hours
per day, six days per week, and not spending enough time with my
husband and my two young children. But I didn’t see any way out.”
“I had been working for eight years for a fast-growing
entrepreneurial company in the high-tech area, but there always

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 56
seemed to be an overwhelming amount of work to do and never
enough time.”
One Thing All Day Long
She continued with her story. “Once I had made up this list, you then
told me to ask this question, ‘If you could only do one thing on this
list, all day long, which one task would contribute the greatest value
to your company?’ Once I had identified that task, which was quite
easy, I put a circle around that number.
“You then asked, ‘If you could only do one more thing on your list of
key tasks, which would be the second activity that contributes the
most value to your company?’ “
“Once I had identified the second most important task, you asked me
the same question with regard to the third most important task.
“You then said something that shocked me at the time. You said that
fully 90% of the value that you contribute to your company is
contained in those three tasks, whatever they are. Everything else
you do is either a support task or a complimentary task that could
probably be delegated, downsized, outsourced or eliminated.”
Take Immediate Action
Cynthia continued with her story. “As I looked at the three tasks, I
realized that these were the three things that I did that contributed

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 57
the most value to my company. This was on a Friday. On Monday
morning, at 10 o’clock, I met with my boss and explained to him
what I had discovered. I told him that I needed his help in delegating
and outsourcing all my work except for those three key tasks. I felt
that if I could work on those three tasks exclusively, all day long, I
could more than double my contribution to the company. Then I said
to him that, if I doubled my contribution, I would like to be paid
twice as much.”
She said, “My boss was completely silent. He looked at my list of key
tasks, looked back up at me, looked at the list again and then said
‘Okay.’ It was now 10:21 AM according to the clock on the wall
behind him.”
“He said, ‘You’re right, these are the three most important things that
you do in this company, and the three things that you do the best. I
will help you to delegate and downsize all these other minor tasks to
free you up to work full time on these three key tasks. And if you
double your contribution, I will pay you twice as much.”
Transform Your Life
Cynthia concluded her story by saying, “He did, then I did, then he
did. He helped me delegate and assign my minor tasks so I could
concentrate on my top three jobs. As a result, I doubled my output
over the next 30 days, and he doubled my income.”

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 58
She said, “I had been working very hard for more than eight years
and I doubled my income in less than one month by focusing all my
time and energy on my three key tasks. Not only that, instead of
working 10 and 12 hour days, I work from 8:00 to 5:00 and spend
time in the evenings and on the weekends with my husband and my
children. Focusing on my key tasks has transformed my life.”
Perhaps the most important word in the world of work is
“contribution.” Your rewards, both financial and emotional, will
always be in direct proportion to your results, to the value of your
contribution. If you want to increase your rewards, you must focus
on increasing the value of what you do. You must dedicate yourself
to contributing more results to your company. And there are always
three key tasks that contribute the most.
The Quick List Method
Here is an exercise that we give to our coaching clients very early in
the process. We give them a sheet of paper and then ask them, “In 30
seconds, write down your three most important goals in life, right
now.”
What we have found is that when you only have 30 seconds to write
your three most important goals, your answers will be as accurate as
if you had 30 minutes or three hours. Your subconscious mind seems
to go into a form of “hyper-drive” and your three most important
goals will pop out of your head and onto the paper, often to the
surprise of the person doing the exercise.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 59
In 80% or more of cases, the three common goals that most people
have are first, a financial and career goal; second, a family or personal
relationship goal; and third, a health or a fitness goal.
And this is as it should be. These are the three most important areas
of life. If you give yourself a grade on a scale of one to ten, with one
being the lowest and ten being the highest, and apply this scale to
each of these three areas, you can immediately identify where you
are doing well in life and where you need some improvement. Try it
yourself and see. Give this test to your spouse or your children. The
answers can be quite revealing.
Later in our coaching program, we expand this exercise by asking the
following questions:
1.
What are your three most important business or career goals,
right now?
2.
What are your three most important family or relationship
goals, right now?
3.
What are your three most important financial goals, right now?
4.
What are your three most important health goals, right now?
5.
What are your three most important personal and professional
development goals, right now?
6.
What are your three most important social and community
goals, right now?
7.
What are your three biggest problems or concerns in life, right
now?

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 60
When you force yourself to ask and answer these questions in 30
seconds or less, you will often be amazed at the answers. Whatever
your answers, they will usually be an accurate snapshot of your true
situation in life at the moment. These answers will tell you what is
really important to you.
While you are setting goals and priorities, getting organized,
concentrating single-mindedly on one task at a time, and disciplining
yourself to complete your most important tasks, you must never
forget that your ultimate goal is to live a long, happy and healthy life.
Time Management Is a Means to an End
The main reason that you develop time management skills is so that
you can get everything that is really important in your work
completed so that you can free up more and more time to do the
things in your personal life that give you the greatest happiness and
satisfaction.
Fully 85% of your happiness in life will come from happy
relationships with other people, especially those closest to you, and
the members of your family. The critical determinant of the quality of
your relationships is the amount of time that you spend face to face
with the people you love, and who love you in return.
The purpose of time management skills, of eating that frog, and
getting more done in less time, is to enable you to spend more “face

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 61
time” with the people you care about, doing the things that give you
the greatest amount of joy in life.
Rule: It is quality of time at work that counts and quantity of time at
home that matters.
Work All the Time You Work
To keep your life in balance, you should resolve to work all the time
you work. When you go to work, put your head down and work the
whole time. Start a little earlier, stay a little later, and work a little
harder. Don’t waste time. Every minute that you spend in idle chit
chat with coworkers is time taken away from the work that you must
accomplish if you want to keep your job.
Even worse, time that you waste at work often has to be taken away
from the members of your family. You either have to stay late or take
work home and work in the evenings. By not working effectively and
efficiently during your workday, you create unnecessary stress and
you deprive the members of your family of the very best person you
can possibly be.
 There is a story of a little girl who goes to her mother and asks,
“Mommy, why does daddy bring a briefcase full of work home each
night and never spends any time with the family?”

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 62
The mother replies sympathetically, “Well honey, you have to
understand, daddy can’t get his work done at the office so he has to
bring it home and get caught up here.”
The little girl then asks, “If that’s the case, why don’t they put him in
a slower class?”
Balance Is Not an Option
One of the most famous sayings of the ancient Greeks was
“Moderation in all things.”
You need balance between your work and your personal life. You
need to set priorities at work and concentrate on your most valuable
tasks. At the same time, you must never lose sight of the fact that the
reason for working efficiently is so that you can enjoy a higher
quality of life at home with your family.
Sometimes people come up to me and ask, “How do I achieve
balance between my work and my home life?”
I ask them in return, “How often does a tight rope walker balance
when he is on the high wire?”
After a few seconds of thinking, they almost always say, “All the
time.”

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 63
I say, “That is the same situation with balance between family and
home life. You have to do it all the time. You never reach a point
where you have attained it perfectly. You have to work at it.”
Your goal should be to perform at your very best at work, to get the
very most done and enjoy the very highest level of rewards possible
for you in your career. Simultaneously, you must always remember
to “smell the flowers along the way.” Never lose sight of the real
reasons why you work as hard as you do, and why you are so
determined to accomplish the very most with the time that you
invest. The more time you spend face-to-face with the people you
love, the happier you will be.
Eat That Frog!
1.  Determine the three most important things that you do in your
work. Ask, “If I could only do one thing all day long, which one task
contributes the greatest value to my career?” Do this exercise two
more times. Once you have identified your “Big Three” concentrate
on them single mindedly all day long.
2.  Identify your three most important goals in life, in each area.
Organize them by priority. Make plans for their accomplishment, and
work on your plans every single day. You will be amazed at what
you achieve in the months and years ahead.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 64
CHAPTER 9
Prepare Thoroughly Before You Begin
“No matter what the level of your ability,
you have more potential than you can ever develop in a lifetime.”
James T. McKay
One of the best ways for you to overcome procrastination and get
more things done faster is for you to have everything you need at
hand before you begin. When you are fully prepared, you are like a
cocked gun or an archer with an arrow pulled back taut in the bow.
You just need one small mental push to get started on your highest
value tasks.
This is like getting everything ready to prepare a complete meal, such
as eating a big frog. You get all the ingredients out on the counter in
front of you and then begin putting the dinner together, one step at a
time.
Begin by clearing off your desk or workspace so that you only have
one task in front of you. If necessary, put everything on the floor or
on the table behind you. Gather all the information, reports, details,
papers, and work materials that you will require to complete the job.
Have them at hand so you can reach them without getting up or
moving.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 65
Be sure that you have all writing materials, computer disks, access
codes, email addresses and everything else you need to start and
continue working until the job is done.
Set up your work area so that it is comfortable, attractive and
conducive to working for long periods. Especially, make sure that
you have a comfortable chair that supports your back and allows
your feet to sit flat on the floor.
Create a Comfortable Work Space
The most productive people take the time to create a work area
where they enjoy spending time. The cleaner and neater your work
area before you begin, the easier it is for you to get started and keep
going.
One of the great techniques for overcoming procrastination (eating
frogs) is for you to get everything completely ready that you need to
work, in advance. When everything is laid out in order and sequence,
you feel much more like getting on with the job.
Get On With the Job
It is amazing how many books never get written, how many degrees
never get completed, how many life changing tasks never get started
because people fail to take the first step of preparing everything in
advance.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 66
Los Angeles attracts people from all over America who dream of
writing a successful movie script and selling it to one of the studios.
They move to Los Angeles and work at low level jobs for years while
they dream of writing and selling a popular script.
Recently, the Los Angeles Times sent a reporter out onto Wilshire
Boulevard to interview passers by. When people came along, he
asked them one question: "How is your script coming?" Three out of
four passersby replied, "Almost done!"
The sad fact is that "almost done" probably meant "not yet started."
Don’t let this happen to you.
Launch toward Your Dreams
Once you have completed your preparations, it is essential that you
launch immediately toward your goals. Get started. Do the first
thing, whatever it is.
My personal rule is “get it 80% right and then correct it later.” Run it
up the flagpole and see if anyone salutes. Don’t expect perfection the
first time, or even the first few times. Be prepared to fail over and
over before you get it right.
The biggest enemies we have to overcome on the road to success are
not lack of ability or opportunity, but fears of failure and rejection,
and the doubts that they trigger.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 67
The only way to overcome your fears is to “do the thing you fear,”
and as Emerson wrote, “the death of fear is certain.”
Wayne Gretsky, the great hockey player, once said, “You miss every
shot you don’t take.”
Once you have completed your preparations, have the courage to
take the first action, and everything else will follow from that. The
way you develop the courage you  need is to “act as if” you already
had the courage, and behave accordingly.
Take the First Step
When you sit down, with everything in front of you, ready to go,
assume the body language of high performance. Sit up straight, sit
forward and away from the back of the chair. Carry yourself as
though you were an efficient, effective high performing personality.
Then, pick up the first item and say to yourself, "Let's get to work!"
and plunge in. And once you've started, keep going until the job is
finished.
Eat That Frog!
1. Take a good look at your desk or office, both at home and at the
office. Ask yourself, “What kind of a person works in an environment
like that?” The cleaner and neater your work environment, the more
positive, productive and confident you feel.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 68
2. Resolve today to clean up your desk and office completely so that
you feel effective, efficient and ready to get going each time you sit
down to work.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 69
CHAPTER 10
Take It One Oil Barrel at A Time
“Persons with comparatively moderate powers will accomplish much
if they apply themselves wholly and indefatigably to one thing at a time.”
Samuel Smiles
There is an old saying that, "By the yard it's hard; but inch by inch,
anything's a cinch!"
One of the best ways to overcome procrastination is for you to get
your mind off the huge task in front of you and focus on a single
action that you can take. One of the best ways to eat a large frog is for
you to take it one bite at a time.
Confucius wrote that, "A journey of a thousand leagues begins with a
single step." This is a great strategy for overcoming procrastination
and getting more things done faster.
Crossing a Great Desert
Many years ago, driving an old Land Rover, I crossed the heart of the
Sahara Desert, the Tenezerouft, deep in modern day Algeria. By that
time, the desert had been abandoned by the French for years and the
original refueling stations were empty and shuttered.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 70
The desert was 500 miles across in a single stretch, without water,
food, a blade of grass or even a fly. It was totally flat, like a broad
yellow sand parking lot that stretched to the horizon in all directions.
More than 1300 people had perished in the crossing of that stretch of
the Sahara in previous years. Often drifting sands had obliterated the
track across the desert and the travelers had gotten lost in the night,
never to be found again alive.
To counter this lack of features in the terrain as you crossed that flat
wasteland, the French had marked the track with black, 55 gallon oil
drums, five kilometers apart, which was exactly the curvature of the
earth.
Because of this, wherever you were in the daytime, you could see two
oil barrels, the one you had just passed and the one five kilometers
ahead. And that was all you needed to stay on course.
All you had to do was to steer for the next oil barrel. As a result, we
were able to cross the biggest desert in the world by simply taking it
“one oil barrel at a time.”
Take It One Step at a Time
In the same way, you can accomplish the biggest task in your life by
disciplining yourself to take it just one step at a time. Your job is to go
as far as you can see. You will then see far enough to go further.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 71
To accomplish a great task, you must step out in faith and have
complete confidence that your next step will soon become clear to
you. Remember the wonderful advice, "Leap — and the net will
appear!"
A great life, a great career is built by performing one task at a time,
quickly and well, and then going on to the next task.
Financial independence is achieved by saving a little money every
single month, year after year. Health and fitness are accomplished by
just eating a little less and exercising a little more, day after day and
month after month.
You can overcome procrastination and accomplish extraordinary
things by just taking the first step, by getting started toward your
goal and by then taking it one step, one oil barrel at a time.
Eat That Frog!
1. Select any goal, task or project in your life where you have been
procrastinating and make a list of all the steps you will need to take
to eventually complete the task.
2. Then take just one step immediately. Sometimes, all you need to do
to get started is to sit down and complete one item on the list. And
then do one more, and so on. You will be amazed at what you
eventually accomplish.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 72
CHAPTER 11
Upgrade Your Key Skills
“The only certain means of success is to render more and better service than
is expected of you, no matter what your task may be.”
Og Mandino
This is one of the most important personal productivity principles of
all. Learn what you need to learn so that you can do your work in an
excellent fashion. The better you become at eating a particular type of
frog, the more likely you are to just plunge in and get it done.
A major reason for delay and procrastination is a feeling of
inadequacy, lack of confidence or inability in a key area of the task. A
single area where you feel weak or deficient is enough to discourage
you from starting the job at all.
Continually upgrade your skills in your key result areas. Remember,
however good you are today, your knowledge and skill is becoming
obsolete at a rapid rate. As Pat Riley, the basketball coach said, "If
you're not getting better, you're getting worse."
Never Stop Learning
One of the most helpful of all time management techniques is for you
to get better at your key tasks. Personal and professional
improvement is one of the best time savers there is. The better you
are at a key task, the more motivated you are to launch into it. The

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 73
better you are, the more energy and enthusiasm you have. When you
know that you can do a job well, you find it easier to overcome
procrastination and get the job done faster and better than under any
other circumstances.
One piece of information or one additional skill can make an
enormous difference in your ability to do the job well. Identify the
most important things you do and then make a plan to continually
upgrade your skills in those areas.
Rule: “Continuous learning is the minimum requirement for success
in any field.”
Refuse to allow a weakness or a lack of ability in any area to hold you
back. Everything is learnable. And what others have learned, you can
learn as well.
When I began to write my first book, I was discouraged because I
could only use the “hunt and peck” method of typing. I soon realized
that I had to learn to touch-type if I was ever going to write and
rewrite a 300-page book. So I bought a touch-typing program for my
computer and practiced for 20 to 30 minutes every day for three
months. By the end of that time, I was typing 40-50 words per
minute. With this additional skill, I have been able to write more than
forty books that have now been published all over the world.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 74
The best news is that you can learn whatever skills you need to be
more productive and more effective. You can become a touch typist if
necessary. You can become proficient expert with a computer. You
can become a terrific negotiator or a super salesperson. You can learn
to speak in public. You can learn to write effectively and well. These
are all skills you can acquire, as soon as you decide to, and make
them a priority.
Three Steps to Mastery
First, read in your field for at least one hour every day. Get up a little
earlier in the morning and read for 30-60 minutes in a book or
magazine that contains information that can help you to be more
effective and productive at what you do.
Second, take every course and seminar available on key skills that
can help you. Attend the conventions and business meetings of your
profession or occupation. Go to the sessions and workshops. Sit up
front and take notes. Purchase the audio recordings of the programs.
Dedicate yourself to becoming one of the most knowledgeable and
competent people in your field.
Third, listen to audio programs in your car. The average car owner
sits behind the wheel 500-1000 hours each year while driving from
place to place. Turn driving time into learning time. You can become
one of the smartest, most capable and highest paid people in your
field simply by listening to educational audio programs as you drive
around.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 75
The more you learn and know, the more confident and motivated
you feel. You better you become, the more capable you will be of
doing even more in your field.
The more you learn, the more you can learn. Just as you can build
your physical muscles through physical exercise, you build your
mental muscles with mental exercises. And there is no limit to how
far or how fast you can advance except for the limits you place on
your own imagination.
Eat That Frog!
1.  Resolve today to become a “Do-It-To-Yourself” project. Become a
lifelong student of your craft. School is never out for the professional.
2.  Identify the key skills that can help you the most to achieve better
and faster results. Determine the core competencies that you will
need to have in the future to lead your field. Whatever they are, set a
goal, make a plan and begin developing and increasing your ability
in those areas. Decide to be the very best at what you do!

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 76
CHAPTER 12
Leverage Your Special Talents
“Do your work. Not just your work and no more, but a little more
for the lavishings sake – that little more that is worth all the rest.”
Dean Briggs
You are remarkable! You have special talents and abilities that make
you different from every other person who has ever lived. There are
frogs you can eat, or learn to eat, that can make you one of the most
important people in your business or organization.
There are certain things that you can do, or that you can learn to do,
that can make you extraordinarily valuable to yourself and to others.
Your job is to identify your special areas of uniqueness and then to
commit yourself to becoming very, very good in those areas.
Increase Your Earning Ability
Your most valuable asset, in terms of cash flow, is your "earning
ability." Your ability to work enables you to bring tens of thousands
of dollars into your life every year by simply applying your
knowledge and skills to your world. This is your ability to eat specific
frogs faster and better than others.
You could lose everything you own - your house, your car, your job,
your bank account- but as long as you still had your earning ability,
you could make it all back and more besides.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 77
Take stock of your unique talents and abilities on a regular basis.
What is it that you do especially well? What are you good at? What
do you do easily and well that is difficult for other people? Looking
back at your career, what has been most responsible for your success
in life and work to date? What have been the most significant frogs
you have eaten in the past?
Do What You Love to Do
You are designed in such a way that you will most enjoy doing the
very things that you have the ability to be the very best at. What is it
that you enjoy the most about your work? What kind of frogs do you
most enjoy eating? The very fact that you enjoy something means
that you probably have within yourself the capability to be excellent
in that area.
One of your great responsibilities in life is for you to decide for
yourself what it is that you really love to do and then to throw your
whole heart into doing that special thing very, very well.
Look at your various tasks and responsibilities. What is it that you do
that gets you the most compliments and praise from other people?
What do you do that positively affects the work and performance of
other people more than anyone else?
Successful people are invariably those who have taken the time to
identify what they do well and most enjoy. They know what they do

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 78
that really makes a difference in their work, and they then
concentrate on that task or area of activity exclusively.
You should always focus your best energies and abilities on starting
and completing those key tasks where your unique talents and
abilities enable you to do it well and make a significant contribution.
You cannot do everything but you can do those few things in which
you excel, the few things that can really make a difference.
Eat That Frog!
1.   Continually ask yourself these key questions: “What am I really
good at? What do I enjoy the most about my work? What has been
most responsible for my success in the past? If I could do any job at
all, what job would it be?”
If you won the lottery or came into an enormous amount of money,
and you could choose any job or any part of a job to do for the
indefinite future, what work would you choose?
2.  Develop a personal plan to prepare yourself to do your most
important tasks in an excellent fashion. Focus on those areas where
you have special talents, and which you most enjoy doing. This is the
key to unlocking your personal potential.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 79
CHAPTER 13
Identify Your Key Constraints
“Concentrate all your thoughts on the task at hand.
The sun’s rays do not burn until brought to a focus.”
Alexander Graham Bell
Between where you are today, and any goal or objective that you
want to accomplish, there is one major constraint that must be
overcome before you can achieve that major goal. Your job is to
identify it clearly.
Ask yourself these questions: What is holding you back? What sets
the speed at which you achieve your goals? What determines how
fast you move from where you are to where you want to go? What
stops you or holds you back from eating the frogs that can really
make a difference? Why aren’t you at your goal already?
These are some of the most important questions you will ever ask
and answer achieving high levels of personal productivity and
effectiveness. Whatever you have to do, there is always a limiting
factor that determines how quickly and well you get it done. Your job
is to study the task and identify the limiting factor or constraint
within it. You must then focus all of your energies on alleviating that
single chokepoint.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 80
Identify the Limiting Factor
In virtually every task, large or small, there is a single factor that sets
the speed at which you achieve the goal or complete the job. What is
it? Concentrate your mental energies on that one key area. This can be
the most productive use of your time and talents.
This constraint may be a person whose help or decision you need, a
resource that you require, a weakness in some part of the organization
or something else. But it the limiting factor always there and it is
always your job to find it.
For example, the purpose of a business is to create and keep a customer.
By doing this in sufficient quantities, the company makes a profit and
continues to grow and flourish.
In every business there is a limiting factor or chokepoint that determines
how quickly and well the company achieves this purpose. It may be the
marketing, the level of sales or the sales force itself. It may be the costs of
operation or the methods of production. It may be the level of cash flow
or costs. The success of the company may be determined by the
competition, the customers or the current marketplace. One of these
factors, more than anything else, determines how quickly the company
achieves its goals of growth and profitability. What is it?
The accurate identification of the limiting factor in any process and the
focus on that factor can usually bring about more progress in a shorter
period of time than any other single activity.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 81
The 80/20 Rule Applied to Constraints
The 80/20 Rule also applies to the constraints in your life and in your
work. What this means is that 80% of the constraints, the factors that
are holding you back from achieving your goals, are internal. They
are within yourself, within your own personal qualities, abilities,
habits, disciplines or competencies. Or they are contained within
your own company or organization.
Only 20% of the limiting factors are external to you or to your
organization. Only 20% are on the outside, in the form of
competition, markets, governments or other organizations.
Your key constraint can be something small and not particularly
obvious. Sometimes it requires that you make a list of every step in
the process and examine every activity to determine exactly what it is
that is holding you back. Sometimes, it can be a single negative
perception or objection on the part of the customers that is slowing
down the entire sales process. Sometimes it is the absence of a single
feature that is holding back the growth of sales of a product or
service line.
Look into your company honestly. Look within your boss, your
coworkers and members of your staff to see if there is a key weakness
that is holding you or the company back, which is acting as a brake
on the achievement of your key goals.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 82
Look Into Yourself
In your own life, you must have the honesty to look deeply into
yourself for the limiting factor or limiting skill that sets the speed at
which you achieve your own personal goals.
Successful people always begin the analysis of constraints by asking
the question, "What is it in me that is holding me back?" They accept
complete responsibility for their lives and look to themselves for both
the cause and cure of their problems.
Keep asking, "What sets the speed at which I get the results I want?"
Strive for Accuracy
The definition of the constraint determines the strategy that you use
to alleviate it. The failure to identify the correct constraint, or the
identification of the wrong constraint, can lead you off in the wrong
direction. You can end up solving the wrong problem.
A major corporation, a client of mine, was experiencing declining
sales. They concluded that the major constraint was the sales force
and sales management. They spent an enormous amount of money
reorganizing the management and retraining the salespeople.
They later found that the primary reason that their sales were down
was a mistake made by an accountant that had accidentally priced
their products too high relative to their competition in the

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 83
marketplace.  Once they revamped their pricing, their sales went
back up and they returned to profitability.
Behind every constraint or chokepoint, once it is located and alleviated
successfully, you will find another constraint or limiting factor.
Whether it is getting to work on time in the morning, or building a
successful career, there are always limiting factors and bottlenecks that
set the speed of your progress. Your job is to find them and to focus
your energies on alleviating them as quickly as possible.
Often, starting off your day with the removal of a key bottleneck or
constraint fills you full of energy and personal power. It propels you
into following through and completing the job. And there is always
something. Often alleviating a key constraint or limiting factor is the
most important frog you could eat at that moment.
Eat That Frog!
1.  Identify your most important goal in life today. What is it? What
one goal, if you achieved it, would have the greatest positive effect on
your life? What one career accomplishment would have the greatest
positive impact on your work life?
2.  Determine the one constraint, internal or external that sets the
speed at which you accomplish this goal. Ask:  “Why don’t I have it
already? What is it in me that is holding me back?” Whatever your
answers, take action immediately. Do something. Do anything, but
get started.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 84
CHAPTER 14
Put the Pressure on Yourself
“The first requisite for success is to apply your physical and mental energies
to one problem incessantly without growing weary.”
Thomas Edison
The world is full of people who are waiting for someone to come
along and motivate them to be the kind of people they wish they
could be. The problem is that, "No one is coming to the rescue."
These people are waiting for a bus on a street where no busses pass.
As a result, if they don't take charge of their lives and put the
pressure on themselves, they can end up waiting forever. And that is
what most people do.
Only about 2% of people can work entirely without supervision. We
call these people "leaders." This is the kind of person you are meant
to be, and which you may be, it you decide to.
To reach your full potential, you must form the habit of putting the
pressure on yourself, and not waiting for someone else to come along
and do it for you. You must choose your own frogs and then make
yourself eat them in their order of importance.
Lead the Field
See yourself as a role model for others. Raise the bar on yourself. The
standards you set for your own work and behavior should be higher
than anyone else could set for you.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 85
Make it a game with yourself to start a little earlier, work a little
harder and stay a little later. Always look for ways to go the extra
mile, to do more than you are paid for.
Your self-esteem, the core of your personality, has been defined by
psychologist Nathaniel Brandon as “your reputation with yourself."
You build up or pull down your reputation with yourself with
everything you do, or fail to do. The good news is that you feel better
about yourself whenever you push yourself to do your best. You
increase your own self esteem whenever you go beyond where the
average person would normally quit.
Create Imaginary Deadlines
One of the best ways for you to overcome procrastination is by
working as though you only had one day to get your most important
jobs done before you left for a month or went on vacation.
Imagine each day that you have just received an emergency message
and that you will have to leave town tomorrow for a month. If you
had to leave town for a month, what would you absolutely make sure
that you got done before you left? Whatever your answer, go to work
on that task right now.
Another way to put pressure on yourself is to imagine that you just
received all-expenses paid one-week vacation in a beautiful resort as
a prize, but you will have to leave tomorrow morning on the vacation

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 86
or it will be given to someone else. What would you be determined to
get finished before you left so that you could take that vacation?
Whatever it is, start on that one job immediately.
Successful people continually put the pressure on themselves to
perform at high levels. Unsuccessful people have to be instructed and
supervised and pressured by others.
By putting the pressure on yourself, you accomplish more and better
tasks, faster than ever before. You become a high performance, high-
achieving personality. You feel terrific about yourself, and bit by bit,
you build up the habit of rapid task completion that then goes on to
serve you all the days of your life.
Eat That Frog!
1.   Set deadlines and sub-deadlines on every task and activity. Create
your own “forcing system.” Raise the bar on yourself and don’t let
yourself off the hook. Once you’ve set yourself a deadline, stick to it
and even try to beat it.
2.  Write out every step of a major job or project before you begin.
Determine how many minutes and hours you will require to
complete each phase. Then race against your own clock. Beat your
own deadlines. Make it a game, and resolve to win!

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 87
CHAPTER 15
Maximize Your Personal Powers
“Gather in your resources, rally all your faculties, marshal all your energies,
focus all your capacities upon mastery of at least one field of endeavor.”
John Haggai
The raw material of personal performance and productivity is
contained in your physical, mental and emotional energies.
When you are fully rested, you can get two times, three times and
five times as much done as when you are tired or burned out.
Your body is like a machine that uses food, water and rest to generate
energy that you then use to accomplish important tasks in your life
and work.
One of the most important requirements for being happy and
productive is for you to guard and nurture your energy levels at all
times.
Overworking Can Mean Underproducing
The fact is that your productivity begins to decline after eight or nine
hours of work. For this reason, working long hours into the night,
although it is sometimes necessary, means that you are usually
producing less and less in more and more time.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 88
The more tired you become, the worse will be the quality of your
work and the more mistakes you will make. At a certain point, like a
battery that is run down, you can reach “the wall” and simply be
unable to continue.
Work at Your Own Pace
There are specific times during the day when you are at your best.
You need to identify these times and discipline yourself to use them
on your most important and challenging tasks.
Most people are at their best in the mornings, after a good night's
sleep. Some people are better in the afternoons. A few people are
most creative and productive in the evenings or late at night.
A major reason for procrastination is fatigue, or attempting to start on
a task when you are tired out. You have no energy or enthusiasm. Like
a cold engine in the morning, you can't seem to get yourself started.
Whenever you feel overtired and overwhelmed with too much to do
and too little time, stop yourself and just say, "All I can do is all I can
do."
Sometimes the very best use of your time is to go home early and go
to bed and sleep for ten hours straight. This can completely recharge
you and enable you to get two or three times as much done the
following day, and of a far higher quality, than if you had continued
working long into the night.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 89
Get Enough Sleep
According to many researchers, the average American is not getting
enough sleep relative to the amount of work he or she is doing.
Millions of Americans are working in a state of mental fog as the result
of working too much and sleeping too little.
 One of the smartest things you can do is to turn off the television and
get to bed by ten o'clock each night during the week. Sometimes, one
extra hour of sleep per night can change your entire life.
Here is a rule for you. Take at least one full day off every week.
During this day, either Saturday or Sunday, you must absolutely
refuse to read, clear correspondence, catch up on things from the
office or do anything else that taxes your brain. Instead, you go to a
movie, exercise, spend time with your family, go for a walk or any
activity that allows your brain to completely recharge itself. It is true
that “a change is as good as a rest.”
Take regular vacations each year, both long weekends and one and
two-week breaks to rest and rejuvenate. You are always the most
productive after a restful weekend or a vacation.
Going to bed early five nights a week, sleeping in on the weekends
and taking one full day off each week will ensure that you have far
more energy. This added energy will enable you to overcome
procrastination and get started on your major tasks faster and with
greater resolve than you ever could if you were tired out.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 90
Guard Your Physical Health
In addition to lots of rest, and to keep your energy levels at their
highest, be careful about what you eat. Start the day with a high
protein, low fat and low carbohydrate breakfast. Eat salads with fish
or chicken at lunch. Avoid sugar, salt, white flour products or
deserts. Avoid soft drinks and candy bars or pastries. Feed yourself
as you would feed a world class athlete before a competition, because
in many respects, that’s what you are before starting work each day.
Aim to exercise about 200 minutes each week, the agreed-upon
standard for excellent levels of fitness. This is equal to 30 minutes per
day, and can be achieved by going for a walk before or after work, or
walking short stretches during the day. You can swim, use exercise
equipment or play different sports, but build exercise into your daily
routine, just as if it was a business appointment.
By eating lean and healthy, exercising regularly and getting lots of
rest, you'll get more and better work done, easier and with greater
satisfaction than ever before.
The better you feel when you start work, the less you procrastinate
and the more eager you are to get the job done and get on with other
tasks. High energy levels are indispensable to higher levels of
productivity, more happiness and greater success in everything you
do.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 91
Eat That Frog!
1.  Analyze your current energy levels and compare them with your
daily health habits. Resolve today to improve your levels of health
and energy by asking the following questions:
1) What am I doing physically that I should do more of?
2) What am I doing that I should do less of?
3) What am I not doing that I should start doing if I want to perform
at my best?
4) What am I doing today that affects my health that I should stop
doing altogether?
2.  Select one activity or behavior that you can change immediately to
improve your overall levels of health and energy. Practice that one
action over and over until it becomes a habit. Then select a second
way to improve and begin on that.
Whatever your answers are to these questions, take action today.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 92
CHAPTER 16
Motivate Yourself into Action
“It is in the compelling zest of high adventure and of victory,
and of creative action that man finds his supreme joys.”
Antoine de Saint-Exupery
To perform at your best, you must become your own personal
cheerleader. You must develop a routine of coaching yourself and
encouraging yourself to play at the top of your game.
Most of your emotions, positive or negative, are determined by how
you talk to yourself on a minute-to-minute basis. It is not what
happens to you but the way that you interpret the things that are
happening to you that determines how you feel. It is your version of
events that largely determines whether they motivate or demotivate
you, whether they energize or de-energize you.
To keep yourself motivated, you must resolve to become a complete
optimist. You must determine to respond positively to the words,
actions and reactions of the people and situations around you. You
must refuse to let the unavoidable difficulties and setbacks of daily
life affect your mood or emotions.
Control Your Inner Dialogue
Your level of self-esteem, how much you like and respect yourself, is
central to your levels of motivation and persistence. You should talk

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 93
to yourself positively all the time to boost your self-esteem. Say
things like, "I like myself! I like myself!" over and over until you
begin to believe it and behave like a person with a high performance
personality.
To keep yourself motivated, and to overcome feelings of doubt or
fear, continually tell yourself, "I can do it! I can do it!"
When people ask you how you are, always tell them, "I feel terrific!"
No matter how you really feel at the moment, or what is happening
in your life, resolve to remain cheerful and upbeat. As Victor Frankl
wrote in his best selling book, Logotherapy, “The last great freedom
of mankind is the freedom to choose your attitude under any set of
external conditions.”
Refuse to complain about your problems. Keep them to yourself. As
speaker/humorist Ed Forman says, “You should never share your
problems with others because 80% of people don't care about them
anyway, and the other 20% are kind of glad that you've got them in
the first place.”
Develop a Positive Mental Attitude
In Martin Seligman’s 22 year study at the University of Pennsylvania,
summarized in his book, “Learned Optimism,” he determined that
“optimism” is the most important quality you can develop for

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 94
personal and professional success and happiness. Optimistic people
seem to be more effective in almost every area of life.
It turns out that optimists have three special behaviors, all learned
through practice and repetition. First, optimists look for the good in
every situation. No matter what goes wrong, they always look for
something good or beneficial. And not surprisingly, they always
seem to find it.
Second, optimists always seek the valuable lesson in every setback
or difficulty. They believe that, ”difficulties come not to obstruct, but to
instruct.” They believe that each setback or obstacle contains a
valuable lesson they can learn and grow from, and they are
determined to find it.
Third, optimists always look for the solution to every problem.
Instead of blaming or complaining when things go wrong, they
become action oriented. They ask questions like, "What's the
solution? What can we do now? What's the next step?"
Third, optimists think and talk continually about their goals. They
think about what they want and how to get it, most of the time. They
think and talk about the future and where they are going rather than
the past and where they came from. They are always looking forward
rather than backward.
When you continually visualize your goals and ideals and talk to
yourself in a positive way, you feel more focused and energized. You

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 95
feel more confident and creative. You experience a greater sense of
control and personal power.
And the more positive and motivated you feel, the more eager you
are to get started and the more determined you are to keep going.
Eat That Frog!
1.  Control your thoughts. Remember, you become what you think
about most of the time. Be sure that you are thinking and talking
about the things you want rather than the things you don’t want.
2.  Keep your mind positive by accepting complete responsibility for
yourself and for everything that happens to you. Refuse to criticize,
complain or blame others for anything. Resolve to make progress
rather than excuses. Keep your thoughts and your energy focused
forward, on the things you can do right now to improve your life,
and let the rest go

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 96
CHAPTER 17
Get Out Of the Technological Time Sinks
“There is more to life than just increasing its speed.”
Ghandhi
Technology can be your best friend or your worst enemy. As we race
into the 21st century, bombarded by information from all sides, many
people seem to have an irresistible, if not obsessive, need to
communicate continually and non-stop with people everywhere – in
their personal and business lives.
This incessant, non-stop compulsion to communicate, entailing the
continuous use of cell phones, Blackberries, personal digital
assistants, Internet – both wireless and connected, and various
contact management systems like Microsoft Outlook, Maximizer and
others, tends to leave a person psychologically breathless. He or she
has no time to stop, smell the roses and collect his thoughts.
You Have a Choice
At the same time, there are many high-powered, hard-working,
highly productive people functioning in the dead center of
communications technology who are not overwhelmed by
technology. They seem to have their lives largely under control.
Bill Gross, Manager of more than 600 billion dollars in fixed income
funds and bonds, is famous for exercising regularly and meditating

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 97
daily to keep centered while using no technology at all. He turns off
his cell phone, cuts off his live phone, leaves his Blackberry in his
office, and goes about his daily business without the continuous
interruptions of people who have an overwhelming need to stay
connected. And he says that he never misses an important message.
For you to stay calm, clear headed and capable of performing at your
best, you need to detach on a regular basis from the technology and
communication devices that can overwhelm you if you are not
careful.
Don’t Become Addicted
In Washington not long ago, I was at a business luncheon with a
roomful of high-level executives. Prior to the beginning the luncheon,
one of the organizers stood up and gave a short grace. Everyone
bowed their head. When the grace was over, the luncheon began.
However, at my table, four or five out of the eight people seemed to
have been greatly affected by the prayer that had preceded the
luncheon. They still had their heads down with their hands in their
lap, even when they served the food. Each of them seemed to be lost
in deep thought over the profound questions of the day.
Then I realized that they were not praying at all. Each of them was
intensely focused on their Blackberries, sending and receiving email,
working their little keyboards like frantic teenagers playing a video
game. They were all lost to the world around them as they messaged

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 98
back and forth, some of them with other people in the same room.
They had fallen into a technological trap, a deep sink full of
information exchange in which they were drowning.
Technology is Your Friend
The purpose of modern technology is largely to increase the speed,
efficiency and accuracy of the transfer of information of all kinds.
Technology is meant to help us to improve the quality of our lives by
enabling us to accomplish our key tasks and communicate with the
key people in our world faster and more efficiently than ever before.
But the use of communications technology can quickly become a
form of addiction. People get up in the morning and immediately
check to see if there were any phone calls or voice mail messages on
their cell phones. They then race to their computers to pull up their
email to see if anyone communicated with them overnight. They call
the office to find out if anyone has done or said anything that they
should know about in the last few hours. They check their Microsoft
Outlook, their personal digital assistants, their Blackberries and
whatever other form of communications technology they are using
every five or six minutes to make sure that they are not missing
anything. This has to stop before it gets out of control.
Take Back Your Time
One of my clients, with distributors in 19 states, found himself bound
and chained to his computer, receiving and responding to emails

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 99
several hours each day. The more time he spent at his computer, the
fewer of his other important tasks he was able to get done. The stress
of these tasks, building up like an avalanche overhang, started to
affect his personality, his health and his sleeping habits.
Using the principles taught in Eat That Frog!, we taught him about
the 80/20 Rule and how it applies to emails. Fully 80% of the emails
that you receive are of no value, and should not even be opened.
They should be deleted immediately.
Of the remaining 20%, only 20% of those, or 4% of your emails,
actually require an immediate response of some kind. The other 16%
can be ignored temporarily, or transferred to an action folder where
they can be dealt with one at a time.
Standardize and Delegate
My client felt that there was no one who had the ability to sort out his
emails, more than 300 per day, and that he had to do it all himself, no
matter how much time it took. We encouraged him to sit down with
his secretary and go through his emails, showing her which ones
were important, which ones were unimportant and how to deal with
the most common questions and requests.
To his surprise, within two hours, his secretary knew enough to
handle most of his emails for him. From then on, she would come in
each morning and delete the 80%of emails that were of no value. She
would transfer the essential emails requesting personal action by her

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 100
boss into a separate folder. If there were a question on an email, she
would transfer it to a “process” folder for him to look at at his
convenience.
At our next meeting, he told me that he had tracked the time savings
of this simple exercise and calculated that he was now saving 23
hours per week of work that he could then spend eating his frogs,
and getting his most important tasks completed.
This simple exercise transformed his life, reduced his stress levels,
improved his health and energy and made him a much more relaxed
and positive person.
Here is a question for you: “How would your life change if you had
an extra 23 hours each week, with which to think, work, plan, talk
with key coworkers or even go for a walk with your spouse?”
Refuse to Be a Slave
A journalist for Fortune magazine wrote recently that, when he
arrived back at the office after a two-week vacation, there were more
than 700 emails waiting for him. He realized that it would take him a
week to get through them all, during which time he wouldn’t be able
to tackle any of the projects waiting on his desk.
For the first time in his email career, he took a deep breath, and
punched the “Delete All” button, erasing those 700 emails forever.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 101
He then turned and got busy with the projects that were really
important to him and his company.
 His explanation was simple. He said, “I realized that, just because
somebody sends me an email, it does not mean that they own a piece
of my life in terms of my having to reply to them, now or ever. In
addition, it occurred to me that if the email was really important, the
sender would send it again.” And that’s exactly what happened.
A Servant, Not a Master
For you to be able to concentrate on those few things that make most
of the difference in your business or personal life, you must discipline
yourself to use technology as a servant, not a master. Technology is
there to help you, not to hinder you. The purpose of technology is to
make your life smoother and easier, not to create complexity,
confusion and stress.
One of the best rules in dealing with time, people and technology is
to just, “leave things off.” Resist the urge to start turning on
communication devices as soon as you wake up in the morning.
Leave the radio off. Leave the television off. Leave your cell phone
off. Leave your computer off until you have planned and organized
your day. Deliberately create zones of silence in your life where no
one and nothing can break through and reach you. Maintain your
“inner calm” by forcing yourself to stop on a regular basis and “listen
to the silence.”

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 102
Sometimes to get more done of higher value, you have to stop doing
things of lower value. Keep asking yourself, “What’s important here?”
What is important for you to accomplish at work? What is important
in your personal life? Of all the things that you could do, if you could
only do one or two of them, which ones would they be?
Continuous Contact Is Not Essential
Remember, when you go away for a day, a week or a month, on
vacation or on business, if you are out of touch with your
communications devices, nothing happens. The world seems to
continue revolving whether or not you are in continuous contact with
it. Problems get solved, answers get found, the work gets done and
life continues to flow along like Old Man River. There are very few
things that are so important that they cannot wait.
People often ask me at my seminars, “But don’t you have to keep
current with the news, by reading newspapers, listening to radio and
watching television?”
I tell them, “If it is really important, someone will tell you.” If
something important happens in your life, the country or the world,
someone else can spend hours following the news for you, and they
will usually tell you on the first possible occasion.
Many people discontinue newspapers, stop watching broadcast news
on television and refuse to listen to the radio. And surprisingly

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 103
enough, they remain well informed on most important subjects.
Someone always keeps them up to date. You should do the same.
Eat That Frog!
1.  Resolve today to create “zones of silence” during your day-to-day
activities. Turn off all communications devices and technology for
one hour in the morning and one hour in the afternoon. You will be
amazed at what happens: nothing!
2.  Resolve to take one full day off each week during which you do
not touch your computer, check your Blackberry or make any
attempt to keep in touch with the world of technology. At the end of
a day without continuous contact, except by voice, your mind will go
calm and clear, like water. By giving your mental batteries time to
recharge, free from the incessant interruptions of communication,
you will be more relaxed, aware and alert.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 104
CHAPTER 18
Slice and Dice the Task
“The beginning of a habit is like an invisible thread, but every time
we repeat the act we strengthen the strand, add to it another filament,
until it becomes a great cable and binds us irrevocably in thought and act.”
Orison Swett Marden
A major reason for procrastinating on big, important tasks is that
they appear so large and formidable when you first approach them.
One technique that you can use to cut a big task down to size is the
"Salami slice" method of getting work done.
With this method, you lay out the task in detail and then resolve to
do just one slice of the job for the time being, like eating a roll of
salami, one slice at a time. Or like eating an elephant one bite at a
time.
Psychologically, you will find it easier to do a single, small piece of a
large project than to start on the whole job.
Often, once you have started and completed a single part of the job,
you will feel like doing just one more "slice."
Soon, you will find yourself working through the job one part at a
time, and before you know it, the job will be completed.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 105
Develop a Compulsion to Closure
An important point to remember is that you have deep within you an
"urge to completion" or what is often referred to as a "compulsion to
closure."
This means that you actually feel happier and more powerful when
you start and complete a task of any kind. You satisfy a deep
subconscious need to bring finality to a job or project. This sense of
completion or closure motivates you to start into the next task or
project and then to persist toward final completion. This act of
completion triggers that release of endorphins in your brain that we
talked about earlier.
And the bigger the task you start and complete, the better and more
elated you feel. The bigger the frog you eat, the greater the surge of
personal power and energy you will experience.
When you start and finish a small piece of a task, you feel motivated
to start and finish another part, and then another, and so on. Each
small step forward energizes you. You son develop an inner drive
that motivates you to carry through to completion. This completion
gives you the great feeling of happiness and satisfaction that
accompanies any success.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 106
Swiss Cheese Your Tasks
Another technique you can use to get yourself going is called the
"Swiss cheese" method of working. You use this technique to get
yourself into gear by resolving to punch a hole into the task, like a
hole in a block of Swiss Cheese.
You Swiss cheese a task when you resolve to work for a specific time
period on a task. This may be as little as five or ten minutes, after
which you will stop and do something else. You will just take one
bite of your frog and then rest, or do something else.
The power of this method is similar to the salami slice method. Once
you start working, you develop a sense of forward momentum and a
feeling of accomplishment. You become energized and enthusiastic.
You feel yourself internally motivated and propelled to keep going
until the task is complete.
You should try the "Salami Slice" or the "Swiss cheese" method on
any task that seems overwhelming when you approach it for the first
time. You will be amazed at how helpful these techniques are in
overcoming procrastination.
I have several friends who have become best selling authors by
simply resolving to write one page, or even one paragraph per day
until the book was completed. And you can do the same.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 107
Eat That Frog!
1.   Put one of these techniques into action immediately. Take a large,
complex, multi-task job that you’ve been putting off and either
“salami slice” or “Swiss cheese” it to get started.
2.  Become action-oriented. A common quality of high performance
men and women is that, when they hear a good idea, they take action
on it immediately. As a result, they learn more, faster, and get much
better results.  Don’t delay. Try it today!

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 108
CHAPTER 19
Create Large Chunks of Time
“Nothing can add more power to your life
than concentrating all of your energies on a limited set of targets.”
Nido Qubein
This strategy requires a commitment from you to work at scheduled
times on large tasks. Most of the really important work you do
requires large chunks of unbroken time to complete. Your ability to
create and carve out these blocks of high value, highly productive
time, is central to your ability to make a significant contribution to
your work and your life.
Successful salespeople set aside a specific time period each day to
phone prospects. Rather than procrastinating or delaying on a task
that they don’t particularly like, they resolve that they will phone for
one solid hour between 10:00 and 11:00 AM. They then discipline
themselves to follow through on their resolutions.
Many business executives set aside a specific time each day to call
customers directly to get feedback, or to return phone calls, or answer
correspondence.
Some people allocate specific 30-60 minute time periods each day for
exercise. Many people read in the great books 15 minutes each night
before retiring. In this way, over time, they eventually read dozens of
the best books ever written.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 109
Schedule Blocks of Time
The key to the success of this method of working in specific time
segments is for you to plan your day in advance and specifically
schedule a fixed time period for a particular activity or task.
You make work appointments with yourself and then discipline
yourself to keep them. You set aside thirty, sixty and ninety minute
time segments that you use to work on and complete important tasks.
Many highly productive people schedule specific activities in
preplanned time slots all day long. These people build their work
lives around accomplishing key tasks one at a time. As a result, they
become more and more productive and eventually produce two
times, three times and five times as much as the average person.
Use a Time Planner
A time planner, broken down by day, hour and minute, organized in
advance, can be one of the most powerful, personal productivity
tools of all. It enables you to see where you can consolidate and
create blocks of time for concentrated work.
During this working time, you turn off the telephone, eliminate all
distractions and work non-stop. One of the best work habits of all is
for you to get up early and work at home in the morning for several
hours. You can get three times as much work done at home without

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 110
interruptions as you ever could in a busy office where you are
surrounded by people and bombarded by phone calls.
Make Every Minute Count
When you fly on business, you can create your office in the air by
planning your work thoroughly before you depart. When the plane
takes off, you can work non-stop for the entire flight. You will be
amazed at how much work you can go through when you work
steadily in an airplane, without interruptions.
One of the keys to high levels of performance and productivity is for
you to make every minute count. Use travel and transition time, what
is often called "gifts of time" to complete small chunks of larger tasks.
Remember, the pyramids were built one block at a time. A great life
and a great career is built one task, and often, one part of a task, at a
time. Your job in time management is to deliberately and creatively
organize the concentrated time periods you need to get your key jobs
done well, and on schedule.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 111
Eat That Frog!
1.  Think continually of different ways that you can save, schedule
and consolidate large chunks of time. Use this time to work on
important tasks with the most significant long-term consequences.
2.  Make every minute count. Work steadily and continuously
without diversion or distraction by planning and preparing your
work in advance. Most of all, keep focused on the most important
results for which you are responsible.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 112
CHAPTER 20
Develop A Sense of Urgency
“Do not wait; the time will never be ‘just right.’ Start where you stand,
and work with whatever tools you may have at your command,
and better tools will be found as you go along.”
Napoleon Hill
Perhaps the most outwardly identifiable quality of a high performing
man or woman is "action orientation." They are in a hurry to get their
key tasks completed.
Highly productive people take the time to think, plan and set
priorities. They then launch quickly and strongly toward their goals
and objectives. They work steadily, smoothly and continuously. As a
result, they seem to power through enormous amounts of work in the
same amount of time that the average person spends socializing,
wasting time and working on low value activities.
Working in the “Zone”
When you work on your most important tasks at a high and
continuous level of activity, you can actually enter into an amazing
mental state called "flow." Almost everyone has experienced this at
some time. Really successful people are those who get themselves
into this state far more often than the average.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 113
In the state of "flow," which is the highest human state of
performance and productivity, something almost miraculous
happens to your mind and emotions.
You feel elated and clear. Everything you do seems effortless and
accurate. You feel happy and energized. You experience a
tremendous sense of calm and increased personal effectiveness.
In the state of "flow," identified and talked about over the centuries,
you actually function on a higher plane of clarity, creativity and
competence. You are more sensitive and aware. Your insight and
intuition functions with incredible precision. You see the
interconnectedness of people and circumstances around you. You
often come up with brilliant ideas and insights that enable you to
move ahead even more rapidly.
Trigger Yourself into High Performance
One of the ways you can trigger this state of flow is by developing a
"sense of urgency.” This is an inner drive and desire to get on with
the job quickly and get it done fast. This inner drive is an impatience
that motivates you to get going and to keep going. A sense of
urgency feels very much like racing against yourself.
With this ingrained sense of urgency, you develop a "bias for action."
You take action rather than talking continually about what you are
going to do. You focus on specific steps you can take immediately.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 114
You concentrate on the things you can do right now to get the results
you want and achieve the goals you desire.
Fast tempo seems to go hand in hand with all great success.
Developing this tempo requires that you start moving and keep
moving at a steady rate. The faster you move, the more impelled you
feel to do even more, even faster. You enter “the zone.”
Build Up a Sense of Momentum
When you regularly take continuous action toward your most
important goals, you activate the "Momentum Principle” of success.
This principle says that although it may take tremendous amounts of
energy to overcome inertia and get started initially, it then takes far
less energy to keep going.
The good news is that the faster you move, the more energy you have.
The faster you move, the more you get done and the more effective
you feel. The faster you move, the more experience you get and the
more you learn. The faster you move, the more competent and
capable you become at your work.
A sense of urgency shifts you automatically onto the fast track in
your career. The faster you work and the more you get done, the
higher will be your levels of self-esteem, self-respect and personal
pride. You feel in complete control of your life and your work.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 115
Do It Now!
One of the simplest and yet most powerful ways to get yourself
started is to repeat the words, "Do it now! Do it now! Do it now!"
over and over to yourself.
If you feel yourself slowing down or becoming distracted by
conversations or low value activities, repeat to yourself the words,
"Back to work! Back to work! Back to work!" over and over.
In the final analysis, nothing will help you more in your career than
for you to get the reputation for being the kind of person who gets
important work done quickly and well. This reputation will make
you one of the most valuable and respected people in your field.
Eat That Frog!
1.  Resolve today to develop a sense of urgency in everything you do.
Select one area where you have a tendency to procrastinate and make
a decision to develop the habit of fast action in that area.
2.  When you see an opportunity or a problem, take action on it
immediately. When you are given a task or responsibility, do it
quickly and report back fast. Move rapidly in every important area of
your life. You will be amazed at how much better you feel, and how
much more you get done.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 116
CHAPTER 21
Single Handle Every Task
“And herein lies the secret of true power. Learn, by constant practice,
how to husband your resources, and concentrate them,
at any given moment, upon a given point.”
James Allen
Eat that frog! Every bit of planning, prioritizing and organizing
comes down to this simple concept.
Your ability to select your most important task, to begin it and then to
concentrate on it single mindedly until it is complete is the key to
high levels of performance and personal productivity.
Every great achievement of mankind has been preceded by a long
period of hard, concentrated work until the job was done.
Once You Get Going, Keep Going
Single handling requires that once you begin, you keep working at
the task, without diversion or distraction, until the job is 100%
complete. You keep urging yourself onward by repeating the words
"Back to work!" over and over whenever you are tempted to stop or
do something else.
By concentrating single mindedly on your most important task, you
can reduce the time required to complete it by 50% or more.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 117
It has been estimated that the tendency to start and stop a task, to
pick it up, put it down and come back to it can increase the time
necessary to complete the task by as much as 500%.
Each time you return to the task, you have to familiarize yourself
with where you were when you stopped and what you still have to
do. You have to overcome inertia and get yourself going again. You
have to develop momentum and get into a productive work rhythm.
But when you prepare thoroughly and then begin, refusing to stop or
turn aside until the job is done, you develop energy, enthusiasm and
motivation. You get better and better and more productive. You work
faster and more effectively.
Don’t Waste Time
The truth is that once you have decided on your number one task,
anything else that you do other than that is a relative waste of time.
Any other activity is just not as valuable or as important as this job,
based on your own priorities.
The more you discipline yourself to working non-stop on a single
task, the more you move down the "Efficiency Curve." You get more
and more high quality work done in less and less time.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 118
Each time you stop working however, you break this cycle and move
back up the curve to where every part of the task is more difficult
and time consuming.
Self Discipline Is the Key
Elbert Hubbard defined self discipline as, "The ability to make
yourself do what you should do, when you should do it, whether you
feel like it or not."
In the final analysis, success in any area requires tons of discipline.
Self-discipline, self-mastery and self-control are the basic building
blocks of character and high performance.
Starting a high priority task and persisting with that task until it is
100% complete is the true test of your character, your willpower and
your resolve.
Persistence is actually self-discipline in action. The good news is that
the more you discipline yourself to persist on a major task, the more
you like and respect yourself, and the higher is your self-esteem.
And the more you like and respect yourself, the easier it is for you to
discipline yourself to persist even more.
By focusing clearly on your most valuable task and concentrating
single mindedly until it is 100% complete, you actually shape and
mold your own character. You become a superior person.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 119
You feel stronger, more competent, confident and happier. You feel
more powerful and productive.
You eventually feel capable of setting and achieving any goal. You
become the master of your own destiny. You place yourself on an
ascending spiral of personal effectiveness on which your future is
absolutely guaranteed.
And the key to all of this is for you to determine the most valuable
and important thing you could possibly do at every single moment
and then, "Eat That Frog!"
Eat That Frog!
1.  Take action! Resolve today to select the most important task or
project that you could complete and then launch into it immediately.
2.  Once you start your most important task, discipline yourself to
persevere without diversion or distraction until it is 100% complete.
See it as a “test” to determine whether you are the kind of person
who can make a decision to complete something and then carry it
out. Once you begin, refuse to stop until the job is finished.

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 120
CONCLUSION
Putting It All Together
The key to happiness, satisfaction, great success and a wonderful
feeling of persona power and effectiveness is for you to develop the
habit of eating your frog, first thing every day when you start work.
Fortunately, this is a learnable skill that you can acquire through
repetition. And when you develop the habit of starting on your most
important task, before anything else, your success is assured.
Here is a summary of the 21 Great Ways to stop procrastinating and
get more things done faster. Review these rules and principles
regularly until they become firmly ingrained in your thinking and
actions and your future will be guaranteed.
1. Set the table: Decide exactly what you want. Clarity is essential.
Write out your goals and objectives before you begin;
2. Plan every day in advance: Think on paper. Every minute you
spend in planning can save you five or ten minutes in execution;
3. Apply the 80/20 Rule to everything: Twenty percent of your
activities will account for eighty percent of your results. Always
concentrate your efforts on that top twenty percent;
4. Consider the consequences: Your most important tasks and
priorities are those that can have the most serious consequences,

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 121
positive or negative, on your life or work. Focus on these above all
else;
5. Practice creative procrastination: Since you can’t do everything,
you must learn to deliberately put off those tasks that are of low
value so that you have enough time to do the few things that
really count;
6. Use the ABCDE Method continually: Before you begin work on a
list of tasks, take a few moments to organize them by value and
priority so you can be sure of working on your most important
activities:
7. Focus on key result areas: Identify and determine those results
that you absolutely, positively have to get to do your job well, and
work on them all day long;
8. The Law of Three: Identify the three things you do in your work
that account for 90% of your contribution and focus on getting
them done before anything else. You will then have more time for
your family and personal life;
9. Prepare thoroughly before you begin: have everything you need
at hand before you start. Assemble all papers, information, tools,
work materials and numbers so that you can get started and keep
going.
10. Take it one oil barrel at a time: You can accomplish the biggest
and most complicated job if you just complete it one step at a time;

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 122
11. Upgrade your key skills: The more knowledgeable and skilled
you become at your key tasks, the faster you start them and the
sooner you get them done;
12. Leverage your special talents: Determine exactly what it is that
you are very good at doing, or could be very good at, and throw
your whole heart into doing those specific things very, very well:
13. Identify your key constraints: Determine the bottlenecks or
chokepoints, internally or externally, that set the speed at which
you achieve your most important goals and focus on alleviating
them;
14. Put the pressure on yourself: Imagine that you have to leave
town for a month and work as if you had to get all your major
tasks completed before you left;
15. Maximize your personal powers: Identify your periods of highest
mental and physical energy each day and structure your most
important and demanding tasks around these times. Get lots of
rest so you can perform at your best;
16. Motivate yourself into action: Be your own cheerleader. Look for
the good in every situation. Focus on the solution rather than the
problem. Always be optimistic and constructive;
17. Get Out of The Technological Time Sinks: Use technology to
improve the quality of your communications, but do not allow
yourself to become a slave to. Learn to occasionally turn things off,
and leave them off;

EAT THAT FROG!
PAGE 123
18. Slice and dice the task: Break large, complex tasks down into bite
sized pieces and then just do one small part of the task to get
started;
19. Create large chunks of time: Organize your days around large
blocks of time where you can concentrate for  extended periods on
your most important tasks;
20. Develop a sense of urgency: Make a habit of moving fast on your
key tasks. Become known as a person who does things quickly
and well;
21. Single handle every task: Set clear priorities, start immediately
on your most important task and then work without stopping
until the job is 100% complete. This is the real key to high
performance and maximum personal productivity.
Make a decision to practice these principles every day until they
become second nature to you. With these habits of personal
management as a permanent part of your personality, your future
success will be unlimited.
Just do it! Eat that frog.